Monzo says issue with card payments and transfers now resolved

Monzo says issue with card payments and transfers now resolved Monzo says a technical issue which left users unable to use their card for payments or transfers has now been resolved. The digital bank had previously posted on X , external it had "identified some issues" and activated a stand-in backup service which meant users could still make transactions like card payments and sending and receiving bank transfers. However, some users noted under the post , external that Monzo Stand-in was "not working as expected" and they could still not use their card. Following this, a Monzo spokesperson said all of its services were now "back up and running". "We're sorry for any inconvenience and thank customers for their patience," they said. The British digital bank was set up in 2015 as a "new kind of bank" that ditched physical bank branches for a mobile-first app. The firm says it now has more than 16 million personal and business customers which use the service around the world. As the company worked on the issue, it noted that users would be able to use its independent service Monzo Stand-in to still "make card payments, withdraw cash, freeze your card, send and receive bank transfers, and more". While the support appears to be working for some, others have still been reporting issues. "I can't use my card for anything at the moment," posted one X user , external . "Your "backup" bank does not have the functionality you state it does. I can't make bank transfers right now," said another , external . Sign up for our Tech Decoded newsletter to follow the world's top tech stories and trends. Outside the UK? Sign up here . Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.