Trump pauses new tariffs on Canada for three days, saying deal close

Trump pauses new tariffs on Canada for three days, saying deal close The BBC's Samira Hussain explains the impact of Trump's tariffs on the US US President Donald Trump said he will delay imposing new tariffs on a wide array of Canadian goods for three days as the countries firm up a trade deal. "I have paused the 50% Tariffs against Canada, that were scheduled to kick in tomorrow morning for a three day period, based on the fact that Canada and the U.S.A., subject to the finalization of documents, have a DEAL!" Trump said in a social media post. The announcement came less than two hours before a 50% levy on nearly $20bn (£14.8bn; C$28bn) of Canadian imports was set to go in place. The two sides have been at an impasse on several issues, including US tariffs on autos and many Canadian provinces banning American liquor sales. Senior trade representatives for both countries met on Wednesday morning in Washington after Trump's tariff pause, indicating that discussions on a possible deal are still ongoing. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, Trump characterised the deal as "very good" for both countries. He suggested it would include concessions from Canada on agriculture and manufacturing, as well as a reduction of certain US tariffs on Canada. Trump and Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney spoke twice this week, and trade negotiators have been engaged in intense talks since July, after the US president threatened the new levy with a deadline of 19 August. "Substantial progress has been made, although there is important work still to be done," Carney said in a letter posted on X. In his post on Tuesday night, Trump also said a final trade deal could allow the revival of the Keystone XL pipeline. The oil pipeline, which would connect Alberta to the US, was blocked by both the Obama and Biden administrations. Environmentalists and indigenous groups have long opposed the pipeline but Trump has said multiple times he would like to revive the project, which would carry 830,000 barrels of oil a day. "The great Keystone XL Pipeline, long ago killed by Sleepy Joe Biden, may be awoken from the grave!" Trump wrote on Truth Social. "The deal will include comprehensive market access for all American goods, economic security commitments, digital trade alignment", US Trade Representative Jamieson Greer's office posted on X. It will also include "many important provisions that will continue to protect our market and American workers, along with our Canadian partners", it added. Canada's 'powerful' dairy sector is in Trump's trade crosshairs What tariffs has Trump introduced and why? Tuesday's extension is welcome news for Canadian negotiators and for businesses on both sides of the border, who have warned that the new tariffs would be harmful to both countries. Tensions have mounted between the two major trading partners since Trump returned to office in January last year and he unleashed a wide-ranging global programme of tariffs, upending decades of free trade between Canada and the US. The latest tariffs threatened by Trump were to be applied on a range of Canadian imports, including wine, dairy, cement, clothing and hockey equipment. They would have been in addition to existing tariffs the US had already imposed on Canadian steel and aluminium, autos and lumber. Canada has been in pursuit of a deal that would have the US drop or reduce tariffs on these key sectors. The US, meanwhile, has been asking for a number of concessions from Canada, including removing its remaining retaliatory tariffs on American autos and adjusting its dairy quotas to allow greater access for US cheese producers. It has also asked for the ban on US alcohol sales, imposed last year by most Canadian provinces in retaliation to Trump's tariffs, be removed. In the final hours before Wednesday's deadline, negotiators were discussing a deal that would reduce US tariffs on Canadian autos from 25% to 15%, according to a Reuters report citing anonymous sources. But the two countries could not agree on which vehicles would be eligible for tarif