Overhaul for Belfast cranes ahead of major contract

Overhaul for Belfast cranes ahead of major contract The shipyard is to spend £3m refurbishing its famous yellow cranes, Samson and Goliath The Harland and Wolff shipyard is to spend £3m refurbishing its famous yellow cranes, Samson and Goliath. It is part of an investment of almost £100m as the Belfast yard's Spanish owners prepare it for a major defence contract. The yard is the integration and final assembly site for three Royal Navy support ships in what is known as the Fleet Solid Support (FSS) programme. The cranes, which dominate the east Belfast skyline, will have their engines overhauled and other key components replaced. Harland and Wolff has been owned by Navantia, Spain's state-owned shipbuilder, since January 2025 . Carlos Lopez Carregado, General Manager at Harland & Wolff, said the overhaul would treat the cranes "with utmost respect". "We know that the city is proud of them, and this major mechanical, electrical, hydraulic and fabric maintenance project will restore them to their absolute best," he added. "We will be replacing parts, updating technology and testing them to see that they can lift at full capacity." Navantia has already made substantial investments in Belfast, including an expansion to the fabrication hall and installing plasma cutting equipment. Work on the FSS project is well underway at other Navantia sites in Spain and Devon. The ships are being constructed in blocks which will be taken to Belfast by barge for final assembly. Blocks for the first ship, RFA Resurgent, are due to arrive in Belfast in early 2027. Airbus finalised a deal to buy part of the Spirit Aerosystems facility in east Belfast in December 2025 Meanwhile Airbus, the aerospace manufacturer, said it has started work on a major extension to its wing factory in Belfast. The 6,221 sq m extension will allow the company to increase production of wings for the A220 passenger jet. The facility will house a new autoclave, effectively an industrial pressure-cooker which is used in the manufacturing of the composite wings. The company is also adding high-voltage electrical substations, a new office block, and is expanding its car park. "Enhancing our wing facilities is a direct investment in the future of A220 wing production here in Belfast, building the capacity required to meet the growing demand for this aircraft," said Anthony Rouse, Head of Airbus Belfast Plant and Site. "This commitment is also reflected in our ongoing skills development, including bringing onboard 40 new apprentices who will start in September this year." UK warship to be largely built in Spain as H&W yard 'not ready' Harland & Wolff in administration as part of rescue deal Harland & Wolff saved by deal with Spanish firm Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears 