The critical tech staying safe by going underground

The critical tech staying safe by going underground "Like lighting a rocket" the Earthgrid machine operates at very high temperatures A wall of white granite towered above a small team of engineers gathered in a California quarry. The ancient, ultra-hard material before them was, to most things, completely impermeable. Then the rock-melting tunnel-boring machine (TBR) roared to life. "It's kind of like igniting a rocket," says Troy Helming, founder and chief executive of EarthGrid, as he describes the initially loud process of lighting up three plasma torches at the front of his company's machine. Those torches, set within a spinning head, soon quieten down as they produce a stream of super-heated plasma reaching 27,000C - significantly hotter than the surface of the Sun. During the California test this January, EarthGrid's cigar-shaped boring machine chewed through three metres of granite. "We create, basically, a tornado – a violent vortex inside the tunnel," says Helming, as he explains how this helps the machine to suck away debris, which at times takes the form of lava. "I actually got a little bit emotional watching it," adds the entrepreneur. "I've been waiting for this moment for 10 years." Emerging technologies like this could make tunnel boring quicker and easier. Putting electricity or telecommunications cables, substations, data centres and other critical infrastructure underground, while good for securing such equipment, has long been a very expensive and difficult option. Engineering firms told BBC News they are seeing rising demand for undergrounding, in part due to Russia's war with Ukraine, which has revealed just how vulnerable above-ground facilities can be to drone attacks. Helming says he has fielded interest from companies that want to use his tunnel boring machine for power and fibre optic cables, or pipelines that could transport water, natural gas, or ammonia, for example. One project the company has eyed up would involve boring tunnels for an underground freight-distribution system around airports and warehouses. "To take more trucks off the road," says Helming. The January TBR test went well, though the machine "over-bored" slightly to the top and left of the tunnel, says Helming. His team plans to adjust the machine so that it will create a vortex that spins in alternate directions every five minutes or so, in order to correct this, and they hope the TBR could see commercial deployment as early as next year. The Earthgrid machine can blast its way through solid rock Humans have long buried things in the ground to protect them. Doing it safely and cost-effectively with modern infrastructure is hard but sometimes, even in remotest places, it's an option worth taking. "What we're seeing is that brutal materiality is still important," says Alexander RE Taylor, senior lecturer in communications at the University of Exeter. He has identified what he calls a "data bunker boom" , external in which data centres are increasingly going underground. One data centre completed earlier this year was installed in a corner of the Dolomite Mountains , external in Italy. Freshly excavated caverns 100m underground sit next to stores that have been used for sparkling wine, apples and cheese in recent years. Trentino DataMine's naturally cool space makes it cheaper and less energy-intensive to keep servers cool. Chief executive Dennis Bonn adds: "Ninety million cubic metres of dolomite rock provide natural protection against physical intrusion, electromagnetic interference, seismic events and hydrogeological risks - levels of protection that simply cannot be replicated above ground." Trentino DataMine says its facility provides "security designed by nature" Elsewhere, some tech is burrowing into the seabed. Subsea internet cables, which may run for thousands of kilometres beneath oceans, are occasionally damaged by ship anchors . There is evidence to suggest , external that, as burying part or all of the cables has become more common, faults with these cables have become 