Tokenomics: Why making AI pay is tricky

Tokenomics: Why making AI pay is tricky The big AI firms sell paid-for versions of their tech If you have used a free version of ChatGPT or any of its AI rivals, then you are obviously getting a good deal. Firms like Microsoft, Google and Anthropic have invested hundreds of billions of dollars in developing Large Language Models (LLMs) the tech behind those services. So getting ChatGPT, Claude or Gemini to help with your speech or holiday plans is a bargain. But, naturally, those firms want to recoup their investment, so they offer paid-for versions of their AI, which have extra features for tasks like coding or billing. Meanwhile, third party firms are building and selling services based on AI agents, usually based on an LLM, which are trained to do specific tasks. But setting a price for those services is surprisingly difficult. "Trying to tie someone into a cost model for the next 12 months, two years, three years, it doesn't make any sense, honestly, because we don't know," says Simon Gooch at Saviynt, an identity management company which is incorporating agentic AI into its services. Setting prices for AI services is difficult says Simon Gooch That's because of rapidly changing economics around tokens, the building blocks of LLMs and agentic AI. When a user asks an LLM, like ChatGPT or Anthropic's Claude to answer a question, generate software code, or automate a process, that prompt is broken down into mathematical chunks called tokens, which can be processed by the model. The LLM's response also comes in the form of tokens, which are converted back into text, software code, or a set of commands to automate a process. The problem is this process is not entirely predictable. Subtle variations in the prompt can produce different answers. The same prompt will not always produce the same answer. Different models will produce different answers. Meanwhile, in agentic systems, businesses use multiple AI agents together to make decisions and take actions, further increasing both token use and unpredictability. While the cost of individual tokens – or the credits used to pay for them - has plummeted in recent years, according to analysis by Goldman Sachs, the number of tokens consumed by businesses, and consumers, has skyrocketed. The bank forecasts that , external token consumption will increase 24 times between 2026 and 2030 to 120 quadrillion tokens a month, as companies shift to use AI agents. But companies, and individuals, using AI systems often have a tenuous grasp on just how many tokens they are burning through – until they either run out or get their monthly bill. Even Microsoft has reportedly reined back , external its engineers' use of some third party coding tools, while Uber apparently tore through , external its AI coding token budget for a year in a matter of months earlier this year. Firms are struggling to manage their AI costs says Will Venters Will Venters, associate professor of Digital Innovation and Information Systems at the London School of Economics, said companies can be caught out as they experiment with or implement AI internally, as staff burn through tokens. "People are finding it really hard to manage that cost… it's a non-deterministic output, so it's a non-deterministic value," he said. Companies are finding ways to work around this. Oliver King-Smith, founder of engineering software firm smartR AI, says smaller organisations "can fly under the radar and use [flat fee] personal accounts which I am sure the big vendors don't like". But, he says: "This has to end at some point in time, because the big guys are taking a bath on those accounts." Once the big AI platforms start facing pressure from shareholders to show a profit, he predicts: "They will start clamping down." King-Smith says companies should also think more carefully about what AI models to use. Companies also needed to be much more precise with their prompts, says Rob Steele, CFO at UK accounting software firm iplicit. "You wouldn't send someone in your family out to get the