What's happening to UK interest rates and what does it mean for mortgages?

What's happening to UK interest rates and what does it mean for mortgages? The Bank of England has held UK interest rates at 3.75% for a fifth time, keeping them at the lowest level since February 2023. Before the US-Israeli war with Iran, rates had been expected to fall in 2026, but the economic fallout from the conflict has pushed up inflation across the globe, making cuts unlikely. Interest rates affect mortgage, credit card and savings rates for millions of people. An interest rate tells you how much it costs to borrow money, or the reward for saving it. The Bank of England's base rate is what it charges other banks and building societies to borrow money, which influences what they charge their own customers for mortgages as well as the interest rate they pay on savings. The Bank moves its base rate up and down in order to keep UK inflation — the rate at which prices are increasing — at or near 2%. When inflation is above that target, the Bank typically puts rates up. The idea is to encourage people to spend less, reducing demand for goods and services and limiting price rises. The Bank of England's base rate rose to 5.25% in 2023. It remained at that level until August 2024, when the Bank started cutting. Five cuts brought rates down to 4%, before the Bank held rates at its meetings in September and November 2025. It then cut in December 2025 before holding rates steady in January, March, April, June and July 2026. Meanwhile, the main UK inflation measure, CPI, has dropped significantly since the high of 11.1% recorded in October 2022 as a result of the war in Ukraine. It was 2.9% in the year to July 2026 , up from 2.6% the previous month. The Office for National Statistics (ONS), which tracks UK inflation, said the uptick was a result of higher energy costs. The US-Israel war with Iran has put up energy and fuel costs around the world which has increased the pace of price rises more generally. At the start of the year, the Bank had been expected to cut interest rates twice in 2026, with the first drop predicted to come in March or April. However, the increase in fuel prices and inflation after the outbreak of the conflict has upended all of this. Oil prices initially rose sharply as a result of disruption to supplies in the region, but dropped back when various ceasefires were agreed. Oil prices rose again when the US and Iran resumed attacks in the Strait of Hormuz in July. "Inflation has fallen faster than we'd expected, but the conflict in the Middle East continues to mean high and volatile energy prices," said the Bank's governor, Andrew Bailey. "That will cause inflation to rise again later this year. However the conflict unfolds, our job is to make sure any increase in inflation is temporary and that it comes back to our 2% target." UK household energy bills rose after the latest increase in the price cap which took effect on 1 July, which could push UK inflation higher. Given the uncertainty, many analysts think rates are likely to stay at 3.75% for the foreseeable future. What will the energy cap changes mean for my bills? What does an Andy Burnham-led government mean for your money? Just under a third of households have a mortgage, according to the government's English Housing Survey , external . About 500,000 homeowners have a mortgage that "tracks" the Bank of England's rate. That means any cut means a reduction in the monthly repayments on their outstanding loan. An additional 500,000 homeowners on standard variable (SVR) rates rely on their lender choosing to pass on any Bank rate cut. But the vast majority of mortgage customers - some 87% - have fixed-rate deals. While their monthly payments aren't immediately affected by a rate change, their future deals are. As at 30 July, the average rate on a new two-year fixed deal was 5.62%, up from 4.83% at the start of March, according to the financial information service Moneyfacts. For those looking for a five-year deal, the average rate was 5.66%, up from 4.95% over the same period. The average two-year tracker rate was 4.51%. About 800