Limit reduced for branded school uniform items

Limit reduced for branded school uniform items The government says the costs of uniform items can range from £115 to £294 per child A school uniform policy limiting States schools to five branded uniform items per child has been put in place. The States said this should be "a welcome relief" to families as some schools require 11 branded items of clothing, costing hundreds to pay for uniform, PE kit and equipment. The policy was announced in 2023 , with schools needing to comply by next month in time for the new school term. In the UK, from September uniforms are being limited to three items with a school logo , saving parents an estimated £50 per child. The policy from 2023 was based on recommendations from the Jersey Competition Regulatory Authority (JCRA) after its market study into the cost and competitiveness of school uniform supply. It found branded items made up about 40% of school uniform requirements, with the costs of uniform items ranging from £115 to £294 per child. Education minister deputy Catherine Curtis said reducing costs for parents was "an important part of ensuring access to education for all". "I am pleased the JCRA's recommendations have been carried forward into Jersey's school uniform policy, setting a strong standard for social and economic value." The 31 States schools in Jersey will also be required to "ensure affordability and provide access to second-hand uniform options". JCRA chief executive Tim Ringsdore said the pressures of paying for school uniforms on top of inflation and pressures on household budgets had "not gone away". He said: "As families prepare for the new school year, limiting the number of compulsory branded items should make a real difference. "Branded items can help give schools a sense of identity and belonging, but the new policy strikes a better balance between that identity and keeping costs manageable for parents." Eligible families can also get up to £150 help for each child's back-to-school costs with a government bonus . Follow BBC Jersey on X , external and Facebook , external . Send your story ideas to channel.islands@bbc.co.uk , external . How much parents could save from September's new school uniform rules Last chance to apply for help with school costs Charity and M&S work to cut school uniform costs Plans to make school uniforms more affordable Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not r