Temperatures soar to 38C as amber extreme heat warning in effect

Temperatures soar to 38C as amber extreme heat warning in effect The UK has experienced its hottest day of the year so far on Thursday with a provisional temperature of 38.1C (100F) in Kew Gardens. It is the second time the UK has reached 38C this year – the first was at Lingwood, Norfolk on 26 June. The only time a temperature this high has been recorded twice in a calendar year was in 2022. It comes as a rare amber weather warning for extreme heat is in effect across a large swathe of the UK, as the peak of the UK's fifth heatwave hits. Amber extreme heat warning from the Met Office The extreme heat warning will be in force until 23:59 BST across Eastern England, London and the south-east, the Midlands, north-west England, south-west England and parts of Yorkshire and Humber. It will run alongside amber heat health alerts, issued by the UK Health Security Agency across the entirety of England. In effect until 21:00 BST on 14 August, these warn of significant impacts across health and social care services, including a rise in deaths, particularly among those aged 65 and over or with health conditions. Adding to the risks associated with the heatwave, a tropical night - where temperatures fail to drop below 20C - is also on the cards in places as increasingly humid air spreads into western areas. The cumulative effect of persistent heat by day and night can place additional stress on the body. Temperatures will begin to fall away by the weekend, although at their lowest they will still be average or a little above average for mid-August. Forecast temperatures for the peak of the heat on Thursday Temperatures exceeded 37C in a number of locations on Thursday afternoon. This provisionally sets a new record for the number of days in a calendar year with temperatures of 37C or above. It has only happened nine times since records began - and three of those occasions have been in 2026. Thursday is the 38th day this year when temperatures somewhere in the UK have exceeded 30C - the previous record was 34 days. It adds to a long list of other records set this year. Wednesday became the first day in August to reach 35C or more, making it the 4th consecutive month to reach this temperature. Lingwood, Norfolk, recorded 38C on 26 June - a new UK temperature record for the month of June, and the highest reading so far this year. Currently the hottest August day on record stands at 38.5C, recorded in 2003. As long as August temperatures remain average or above for the month as a whole, this summer will replace 2025 as the warmest on record. Summer 2026 on course to be UK's hottest on record, says Met Office Is there a hosepipe ban in my area? What you need to know Thunderstorm warnings issued for parts of UK with flash flooding expected Rain arrives for some but is another UK heatwave on the way in September? Weather for the week ahead. Video Weather for the week ahead Is there a hosepipe ban in my area? What you need to know Record rains drench South Korean city as landslide kills one About 100 homes swept away after Hurricane Lala lashes Hawaii Wildlife suffering in heatwaves, say experts Once-in-a-generation solar eclipse wows millions in UK and Europe Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.