Rare cows part of estate's rewilding project

Rare cows part of estate's rewilding project A herd of White Park cows is being introduced at Castle Howard Estate A rare breed of cattle has been introduced to the grounds of a historic house in North Yorkshire as part of a 30-year conservation project. The arrival of the White Park cows, thought to be one of the most ancient species of its kind, is the latest phase of the Bog Hall rewilding scheme on the Castle Howard Estate, near Malton. Their grazing in the newly-sown meadows would "help create a more varied habitat structure", the estate said. Head of natural environment, Guy Thallon, said reintroducing animals had been "inspiring for the whole Castle Howard team and beyond", with further plans to release beavers in the autumn. Approximately three miles (5km) of fencing has been installed ahead of their release, with badger tunnels and otter passes built to maintain safe routes for wildlife. "The conservation volunteers have been preparing the site by creating ponds and planting willow," Thallon said. "We can't wait to see the positive impact of nature's engineers in the coming years." The rewilding project covers 440 acres within the Howardian Hills National Landscape Meanwhile, the cows have taken up residence in the project area, where they will live outside all year round. The herd was chosen because it is suited to "outdoor conservation grazing, including in wetter grassland habitats", the estate added. It is priority-listed by the Rare Breeds Survival Trust, which describes it as "likely the most ancient native cattle in the British Isles". The Bog Hall Habitat Bank project hopes to restore and rewild 440 acres of agricultural land into a "thriving space for nature", the estate said. Part of the area, which sits within the Howardian Hills National Landscape, is designated as a Site of Importance for Nature Conservation. The project is being delivered in partnership with nature restoration company Environment Bank. Guy Thallon says it was "exciting" to see the cattle exploring their new home The scheme began in 2024 and volunteers have so far restored meadows and created scrub banks to protect saplings. Ponds and leaky dams have also been installed to hold more water across the site. Thallon said children from nearby primary schools had designed signage for the fencing around the area, featuring "animals they would like to see in the Bog Hall Habitat Bank project in the future". Fraser Rutherford, head of marketing at Environment Bank, said for pupils, it was a "rare opportunity to follow nature restoration throughout their school years and see firsthand how native wildlife returns to a landscape". Listen to highlights from North Yorkshire on BBC Sounds , catch up with the latest episode of Look North . Rewilding project could see beavers return to estate Tamworth pigs introduced to rewild nature reserve 'Squashed poo' a sign of water voles' success Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this