Work on £1.5m nature reserve to start next month

Work on £1.5m nature reserve to start next month The project has been supported by the local community, the charity said A £1.5m project to build a new nature reserve for a town on poor quality, unmanaged meadows will start next month. The Kennet Valley Wetland Reserve will be constructed on about 16 hectares (40 acres) of land at Undy's Meadow, on the northern edge of Hungerford and close to the River Kennet. The Town and Manor of Hungerford, the charity that organises its Tutti Day celebrations , is behind the plan. Kate Edwards, from the charity, said the nature reserve will be a "very special thing". "It's going to be a proper nature reserve; it will be somewhere you can go and sit quietly," she said. "The focus is the wildlife and we're going to be privileged enough hopefully to sit on the benches, walk the paths and see and hear the willow warblers and the grasshopper warblers. Hopefully lots of wetland birds will come in and use the area." She said the community has given the plan the "most incredible support" and that construction work must be carried out between September and December. It must not be done before September because of nesting birds but cannot be done after December because the ground would be too wet. The first stage of work, including a landscape, paths and boardwalks, is expected to be in place by next summer. Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.