Draft dark skies guidance drawn up for the Highlands

Draft dark skies guidance drawn up for the Highlands Highland Council has said its region has some of Europe's darkest skies Highland Council has produced draft guidance aimed at reducing light pollution to give stargazers clearer views of the night sky. Officials said other benefits of minimising outdoor lighting included lower carbon emissions and energy costs. The guidance would support communities wishing to set up dark sky sites, which are locations with little or no light pollution. Builders of major developments in, or near, dark sky sites would be required to carry out a lighting assessment to justify the need for exterior lights. More stories from the Highlands and Islands News from the Highlands and Islands on BBC Sounds Councillors meeting next week have been asked to approve the draft guidance , external . It would then be put out for public consultation before a finalised version of the document was produced. The guidance could form part of Highland Council's proposed Highland Local Development Plan (HLDP), which is due to be published next year. The HLDP would set out areas of the region to be zoned for housing or other developments. A view of the night sky from Invermoriston taken on 13 August In a report, officials said the proposed guidance would encourage best practice by minimising exterior lighting to only what was necessary for safety and security. They said: "There are environmental benefits in terms of reduced emissions and lower adverse impacts on humans and wildlife, financial benefits in reduced energy usage and bills, and tourism economy benefits in terms of retaining and enhancing visitors' ability to enjoy the night sky." In the report, planting trees and adding fencing have been suggested as ways of reducing the glare of outside lights. Officials acknowledged that some communities would prefer to have exterior lighting for safety reasons. The local authority has previously said the Highlands, which has large, sparsely populated areas, offered astronomy fans some of the darkest skies in Europe . In 2024, the Isle of Rum, which is in the Highland Council area, was named Scotland's first International Dark Sky Sanctuary by the organisation DarkSky International. Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.