Solar eclipse inspires talk of Pac-man and Shinto myths

Solar eclipse inspires talk of Pac-man and Shinto myths One person in Bude said: "It's nice being involved in this community experience" People across the South West gathered to watch a rare solar eclipse on Wednesday evening. The event began at approx 19:00 BST with the Moon passing between the Earth and the Sun, creating a crescent shape in the sky. In Sidmouth, families gathered to watch the event, with children describing it as a "once in a lifetime opportunity" and others comparing the shape of the Sun to a banana. One young girl, Charlotte, said: "It's really exciting because the next time I'll see one, I'll be a lot older. It's like a once in a lifetime opportunity." About 94% to 96% of the Sun was covered by the Moon across Devon and Cornwall when the eclipse peaked at 19:15 BST Charlie described the atmosphere as "magical", and said: "The kids haven't stopped screaming and been dancing around since we've been here." Some people marked birthdays and anniversaries during the eclipse, giving the evening a romantic significance. One young girl named Alice described the eclipse as brilliant, and said: "It kind of looks like Pac-man", whilst another felt that the sun disappearing was "kind of scary". Commander Dave Lee, Royal Navy Parachute Display Team, spent the event parachuting into Pendennis Castle at the beginning of the eclipse. Lee was one of five members of the Royal Navy and Royal Marines jumping out of the small aircraft at about 6,000ft (1829m), before deploying their colourful canopies. Lee said: "It is really a once in a lifetime experience, you have a very real feeling of immediacy and freedom, and you get a great view." David Heathfield spent the event telling stories about the "rare" mythology surrounding eclipses, in particular, the story of Amano-Iwato - the Japanese goddess of the sun - who hid in a cave depriving the world of light. "I had to go all the way to Japanese Shinto mythology to find it", he said. In Cornwall, people gathered at locations including Bude and a stone circle on the moors, with one person describing the experience as "very strange" and "surreal". Another person said: "I think it's very, very spiritual." In West Penwith, Mark said wildlife appeared to react to the changing light, with birds returning to their roosts as the eclipse took place. "All the birds have gone to bed," he said, adding that a flock of seagulls and choughs had been feeding on flying ants shortly before they returned to the cliffs. Follow BBC Cornwall on X , external , Facebook , external and Instagram , external . Follow BBC Devon on X , external , Facebook , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk , external . Thousands turn out to watch solar eclipse In pictures: Solar eclipse in South West and Channel Islands 'Phenomenal' sight as millions wowed by once-in-a-generation solar eclipse Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are 