Why cheap power could matter more than clean power in the push for net zero

Why cheap power could matter more than clean power in the push for net zero Why cheap power could matter more than clean power in the push for net zero "I'm an early adopter of new technology," says Gavin Tait, a 69-year-old from Glasgow, with a hint of pride. So when he received a lump sum on retirement a decade or so ago, he invested in renewable energy: solar panels on the roof, a home battery and a heat pump. "It seemed like a no-brainer," he recalls. "I could save money and help the environment - why wouldn't I?" At first, it worked. His well-insulated home stayed warm and his energy bills fell. But when electricity prices surged after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, costs rose, and over the past couple of winters, things began to change. "I noticed my electricity bills were going through the roof," he says. This winter, he and his wife switched it off and went back to their gas boiler, which they had kept as a backup. Gavin - who wrote in to BBC Your Voice about his experiences - says he knows what the problem was. At best gas delivers nearly one unit of heat for each unit of energy put in; his heat pump can deliver up to three or four units of heat for every unit of power. But as heat pumps run on electricity, he is now paying around 27p per kilowatt-hour, compared with less than 6p for gas that powers a boiler - more than four times as much. While he is on a smart tariff with a cheaper overnight rate, it lasts just five hours, so he's paying the higher rate most of the day. One of the issues affecting Gavin's bills is scale. Gavin bought his battery roughly 10 years ago and it is only 1.5 kWh - the best he could afford at the time, but too small to store enough electricity to make much difference. Gavin Tait and his wife switched off their heat pump and returned to their gas boiler after rising electricity costs made it too expensive to run And there's another issue. Gavin says he's happy to have the house at 19C or 20C but his wife sometimes turns up the thermostat to 23C. Heat pumps have to work significantly harder than gas boilers to reach higher temperatures, which can increase their energy use - and cost. "It's simple," he says. "Economically, it just doesn't stack up." His experience is not unusual. A survey of 1,000 heat pump owners last summer, carried out by Censuswide for Ecotricity, found two-thirds said their homes were more expensive to heat than before. For critics of government policy, stories like Gavin's point to a deeper problem. Heating and transport account for over 40% of the UK's emissions but they say that progress on replacing gas boilers and petrol cars is lagging well behind targets because ministers have got the wrong focus. In their view, the government is obsessed with cleaning up electricity generation, even though it accounts for a far smaller total of our emissions - around 10%. So that obsession is pushing up the price of electricity and making it more expensive for people to switch to a heat pump or electric vehicle. The issue has taken on new urgency as conflict in the Middle East pushes up oil and gas prices, raising fears that high energy costs could persist. Conflict in the Middle East, particularly tensions around the Strait of Hormuz, has pushed up oil and gas prices The government insists that focusing on renewables will ultimately deliver greater energy security by reducing reliance on imported gas, lowering emissions and - crucially - cutting bills. Are they right? Or by prioritising cleaner electricity while progress on heating and transport lags behind, is the government chasing the wrong targets? The issue is that while generating renewable electricity can be cheap, the system needed to deliver it is not. When I ask Sir Dieter Helm, professor of economic policy at Oxford University, for his definitive answer on the cost of renewables, he laughs. "It all depends what you choose to measure," he says. Sir Dieter says focusing only on the cost of generating electricity misses a larger issue: the cost of the system as a whole. Electricity has to be avail