People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged

People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Twana Jamal Khdir appeared at Leicester Magistrates' Court on Wednesday afternoon A convicted people smuggler who was found by the BBC to be living in Leicestershire has been arrested and charged with immigration offences. Twana Jamal Khdir, an Iraqi national who was once described as "the godfather" of the French migrant camps, previously served a sentence for people smuggling in France. Last month, the BBC revealed he was now living in the UK. The BBC has been told he was arrested on Tuesday near Uppingham in a joint operation led by the Midlands Criminal Financial Investigations team, with the support of Leicestershire Police. He was charged by the Crown Prosecution Service and appeared at Leicester Magistrates' Court on Wednesday. He pleaded guilty to entering the UK without valid entry clearance, but not guilty to seeking to obtain leave to enter or remain by deceptive means. He has been remanded in custody and will next appear at Leicester Crown Court on 5 October. Khdir was given a five-year jail sentence in France in 2016, where authorities described him as one of the most successful people smugglers ever caught. Prosecutors said the Iraqi Kurd, aged 36 at the time, had earned up to £100,000 a week for moving illegal immigrants across the Channel. Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.