Burnham unveils plan to get rough sleepers off streets for Christmas

Burnham unveils plan to get rough sleepers off streets for Christmas A rough sleeper lies on a pavement in London last month Every rough sleeper in England will be offered accommodation this winter, the prime minister has said. Andy Burnham made ending rough sleeping his first pledge when entering Downing Street in July and now says he wants "to get everyone in for Christmas". Emergency accommodation will be provided to end the need for rough sleeping alongside practical support for any health needs, as part of a £442m package. Conservative shadow housing secretary Sir James Cleverly said Burnham promised to end rough sleeping in Greater Manchester when mayor of the area but "failed because he didn't do the hard work necessary". Burnham's pledge seeks to build on the success of Everyone In, a Covid pandemic-era scheme that saw thousands of rough sleepers housed in hotels and temporary accommodation. About 37,000 people were helped by that scheme, following its launch in March 2020. The charity Shelter found that about a quarter of them had found settled accommodation, in the form of housing lasting at least six months. , external The PM's announcement comes with an additional £102m in new funding, taking Burnham's total commitment to tackling rough sleeping to £442m since becoming prime minister. The money is said to be "fully funded" within the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government. As well as providing immediate support to get people off the streets, the funding is also designed to deliver more than 1,000 homes over the next three years to provide rough sleepers with permanent accommodation. The funding will also provide "intensive wraparound support", typically psychiatric and drug and alcohol services to help people rebuild their lives. Burnham said he did not believe "anybody should be forced to sleep rough". He added: "And actually when you do leave people sleeping rough it can often cost more to the state because people can be in and out of A&E, in and out of hospital beds and sometimes in contact with the police." The prime minister said the government funding "may not fully get us there" as he appealed to charities and faith organisations to help ensure an offer is made to everybody who needs it. He added: "We did it in the pandemic. We can do it again." Rooms in shared flats or houses, B&B accommodation, warm spaces for short-term refuge and supported lodgings are among the types of accommodation mentioned in the government's guidance that could be used to bring people in off the streets. Burnham also told The Big Issue , external he would commit to donating 15% of his prime minister's salary to tackle homelessness, which follows his decision to give 15% of his MP salary to causes in his Makerfield constituency. A prime minister is entitled to an additional salary of £83,837 on top of their salary for being an MP. Recent PMs have claimed £75,440, with the previous government of Sir Keir Starmer continuing the freeze on ministerial salaries. For the Conservatives, Sir James said the PM's pledge lacked a plan for delivery. He said: "As with many of his other commitments, there is very little detail on how this one will be paid for." The previous Conservative government had pledged to end rough sleeping by 2024. According to official data, there were an estimated 4,793 people sleeping rough on a single night in England in the autumn of 2025 , external , a 96% increase in five years. Rough sleeping is the most visible form of homelessness, and does not include people staying in temporary accommodation like hostels, or sofa surfing. However, the annual snapshot is seen as significantly undercounting the extent of the problem due to strict rules over how the data is collected. Liberal Democrat housing spokesperson Gideon Amos said "sticking plasters won't fix the homelessness crisis", adding a "proper long-term plan" is needed to prevent people finding themselves "back on the streets once the festive headlines fade". He urged Burnham to commit to a Lib Dem target to build 15