Burnham received £345,000 of donations ahead of becoming PM

Burnham received £345,000 of donations ahead of becoming PM Andy Burnham has registered accepting £345,000 of donations over the past year including £164,347 from businessman Lord Sainsbury. The donations, listed in the most recent version of the MPs' register of interests, , external are the prime minister's first declarations since he was elected to Parliament in June. Separately, Burnham has also listed hospitality and gifts he received in the year before he returned to Parliament, including trips to Glastonbury, Lancashire Cricket Club and the Aintree Racecourse. A Labour Party spokesperson said: "It's right that political campaigns are funded by the generous support of party donors, rather than via the public purse. "All declarations have been made in line with Parliamentary and Electoral Commission rules." New MPs are required to register all their current financial interests, and any registrable benefits (other than earnings) received in the 12 months before their election within one month of their election. Lord Sainsbury's donations went towards Burnham's campaign to become Labour leader. Businessman Gary Lubner and former Greater Manchester night-time economy tsar Sacha Lord donated £25,000 and £35,000 to the campaign respectively. The TV production company Charlie Parsons Creative contributed £50,000 and the think tank ThinkLabour, formerly known as Labour Together, provided £22,186. The donations included the provision of office space, IT equipment, staffing, polling, travel, social media support and message testing. Burnham's list also includes £20,000 of donations towards mayoral campaigning from the trade unions Unison, the Communications Workers Union and the Fire Brigades Union. Labour peer Lord Blunkett appears on the list having donated £2,000 towards Burnham's campaign to become the MP for Makerfield. Gifts and hospitality Burnham accepted when he was mayor of Greater Manchester include: Four tickets to Glastonbury, where he was speaking at an event, from the festival organisers and £1,000 for accommodation from the campaigning group PRS for Music Tickets worth £3,800 to the Brit Awards in Manchester from Sony Music Entertainment Two tickets worth £500 for the Aintree Racecourse from the Jockey Club Racecourse Two tickets, valued at £458, from Lancashire Cricket Club for a game in The Hundred tournament A hamper basket and Wedgewood tea set worth £340 from the ambassador of Qatar Shortly after becoming prime minister in 2024, Sir Keir Starmer became embroiled in a row over the gifts he had accepted including tickets to a Taylor Swift concert and thousands of pounds for clothes. He subsequently paid back more than £6,000 worth of gifts and hospitality. He also tightened the rules so that serving ministers had to consider "the need to maintain the public's confidence in the standard of propriety" when accepting gifts. Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry'