Suspended Reform UK member vows to fight to remain in party

Suspended Reform UK member vows to fight to remain in party 'I'm going to fight,' says suspended Reform UK member Tim Montgomerie Political commentator Tim Montgomerie has told BBC Newsnight he will fight his suspension from Reform UK for criticising senior party figures in media interviews. He said his appeal against suspension would be a test case of whether Reform could tolerate free speech. The party said Montgomerie had been suspended in line with its rules after public criticism he made. Montgomerie is a right-of-centre political commentator who defected from the Conservatives to Reform UK in 2024, and who has seen himself as a critical friend of the party leadership. But it seems he is now regarded as more of a critic and less of a friend - and has had his party membership suspended. On Friday, Montgomerie had told the BBC he was frustrated by party leader Nigel Farage's "aggrieved tone" after last week's Clacton by-election. And on a Spectator podcast on Tuesday, he had said another senior party figure, Zia Yusuf, needed to become a team player and should not act "like a child" in politics. It is understood his suspension came after the podcast was recorded but before it was released. "I am going to fight this suspension. I want to stay in Reform. I didn't leave the Conservative Party lightly," he told Newsnight. "I think Reform can reach parts of the country that the Conservative Party never will be able to so I'm going to fight my corner in Reform and I'm going to make this a test case of whether it is a party that can tolerate free speech and dissent," he added. Montgomerie said he supported Reform's policies on immigration and welfare, but he has also highlighted internal tensions in the party. In a video statement on X after news of his suspension emerged on the Guido Fawkes website, Montgomerie said he was only trying to make the party "better and stronger" with his public criticisms. He added that Farage did not know about the decision to suspend him, and he had warned the Reform leader when he joined the party that he would be critical at times, as he had been of the Tory leadership when he ran the ConservativeHome website. Reform's leadership will have to decide whether it is more politically difficult to rescind rather than to retain Montgomerie's party membership. Reform suspends Tory defector after criticism of senior figures Farage faces renewed watchdog probe after Clacton by-election victory Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand 