Reform proposes ban on most benefits for foreign nationals in UK

Reform proposes ban on most benefits for foreign nationals in UK Watch: Some benefit claimants 'can work but have chosen not to', says Jenrick Foreign nationals would be excluded from most benefits under a Reform UK government, the party has said. The ban, part of a proposed overhaul of Britain's benefits system, would include European Union (EU) nationals with settled status in the UK, meaning a renegotiation of the UK's Brexit deal with the EU. In a speech on Monday, the party's economy spokesman, Robert Jenrick, said: "The British taxpayer is acting as the welfare state for the world. That's unfair, we all know it." Reform claims the policy would save £21bn a year by its fifth year, but Labour insists the "vast majority" of migrants have no access to benefits and the Conservatives have dismissed the plans as "cobbled together". Jenrick said there had to be a change of approach to "restore fairness" to the welfare system. He said one-in-six Universal Credit claimants are not a British or Irish citizen and suggested the money should instead be used to "make the lives of British people better". This year the government expects , external to spend a total of £322bn on welfare in Great Britain, or 10.6% of GDP, just over half of which goes to pensioners. Reform says it has spent six months drawing up a 50-page plan that it claims will save a total of £50bn a year. Jenrick said the proposals also include a "welfare to work" scheme which will require people who have claimed benefits for more than 12 months to provide 20 hours-a-week of work for their community. This would apply to those deemed fit to work and will be organised by their local council, the MP said. Those who fail to take part or poorly perform will face sanctions, including potential cuts to their benefits, according to Reform's policy document. Jenrick said: "They'll work to clean up high streets and parks, to beautify neglected places, to carry out minor repairs to staff libraries and community centres, to perform many other tasks from the list that we've published today." In an interview with the BBC, Jenrick would not say how many people would lose access to benefits but insisted his party would treat people claiming benefits "with respect and dignity". "Those who need them, under a Reform government, will continue to receive them but those people who are shirking, who are taking advantage, they will be reassessed and they will be helped back into the workplace. "That is the right and fair thing to do." Does Reform's plan to cut £50bn in welfare spending add up? Welfare cuts: What's been happening with Pip and universal credit? Reform UK pledges to cut welfare to keep pensions triple lock On Saturday, the party said it would replace the disability payments system, Pip , if it entered Number 10 at the next election. The latest proposals would ban foreign nationals from almost all welfare payments including housing benefit, pension credit, jobseeker's allowance, child benefit, free childcare and disability benefits. Only a small number of exemptions would apply, including the war widows pension and Armed Forces compensation. Reform claims that by 2029, around 1.5 million adults who are not British citizens would receive Universal Credit and around 215,000 would receive Pip. The party had previously pledged to ban foreign nationals from claiming Universal Credit . Given those affected would include EU nationals with settled status , external who have an indefinite right to live, work and study in the UK - and have usually lived in the UK for a continuous five-year period - the Brexit deal secured under the last Tory government would need to be renegotiated. It means potentially that British expatriates living in the EU could lose equivalent rights. Figures published in 2025 showed that more than a million UC claimants were born overseas , including around 700,000 EU citizens who arrived in the UK before Brexit and have the right to live and work in the UK. The party said it had accounted for a potential £500m cost of British exp