DUP MP Jim Shannon charged with common assault of a woman

DUP MP Jim Shannon charged with common assault of a woman Jim Shannon is the Democratic Unionist Party MP for Strangford The Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) MP Jim Shannon has been charged with common assault of a woman. It is alleged to have happened on 1 October 2023. In a statement, his solicitors said that the case was being "factually contested". Shannon, 71, with an address at DUP offices on Frances Street in Newtownards, did not attend Newtownards Magistrates' Court on Monday. Defence counsel Conan Rea told the court that Shannon had lodged a defence statement. The court heard that the Public Prosecution Service will be applying to amend dates on paperwork which they had lodged. Rea said that the defence will be objecting to that. He told deputy district judge Trevor Browne that the defence have lodged a skeleton argument detailing their objections. With prosecuting counsel set to reply to the submissions, the judge adjourned the case to 1 September. The DUP politician was elected to the Northern Ireland Assembly in 1998, before being re-elected in 2003 and 2007. In 2010, he entered the House of Commons as an MP for Strangford, a position which he still holds. DUP leader Gavin Robinson said his party suspended internal proceedings DUP leader Gavin Robinson said the party was aware of the issue, which he described as a "private dispute" within Shannon's family. He said they had begun internal proceedings but suspended them when they became aware the courts were involved. The East Belfast MP said the party would "await the outcome" of the case before making any further decisions. Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.