UK-made drones strike targets inside Russia

UK-made drones strike targets inside Russia Wildberries has been the target of multiple Ukrainian attacks British-made drones are being used to strike targets in Russia for the first time. The drones, built by two separate British companies, have been used in mainland Russia in widespread and successful targeting of military and industrial targets, including refineries and warehouses of online retailer Wildberries. The strikes, first reported by the Sunday Times , external , are said to have caused more than £35bn in economic damage. A well-placed military source confirmed to the BBC the UK drones had been used. British manufactured Storm Shadow missiles had earlier been used in the conflict, although this new phase is having a far more decisive impact. Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova has previously said drones using UK components and configurations have been used to attack Russian territory, including a fuel depot in the Kamensky District of the Rostov Region. In April, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) announced it would supply Ukraine tens of thousands of drones, including long-range strike devices, in its biggest ever package. The MoD said its support for Ukraine is "unwavering" and would stand by its ally "until it wins". A spokesperson said: "We are committed to providing the equipment Ukraine needs to defend itself against Putin's illegal invasion. "This includes over 150,000 drones this year, cutting-edge Stone Cloak devices that hinder Russian air defences and innovative low-cost cruise missiles." On Sunday, Moscow's mayor said about 600 Ukrainian drones were launched towards the city overnight, with roughly a third of the drones being destroyed, and three people were injured. A warehouse belonging to Russian online retailer Wildberries was hit. Wildberries, known as Russia's version of Amazon, has been repeatedly targeted since July. Kyiv said at the time it was targeting logistics hubs used by Russians to buy military equipment and disrupting supplies to the Russian army. Zelensky visit sends clear message of support for Ukraine, Burnham says Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.