Temporary ban on disposable BBQs as military deployed to help battle wildfires

Temporary ban on disposable BBQs as military deployed to help battle wildfires Some retailers had already withdrawn single-use grills from sale Disposable barbecues have been temporarily banned from sale over fears they pose a "significant risk to the public" as drought and heatwave conditions continue to grip the UK. They have been the cause of "a number of serious wildfires across the country over the summer months", the government said. A potential ban was first discussed at an emergency Cobra meeting in response to record temperatures earlier this week. The public have been urged not to light an open fires and to dispose of cigarettes carefully. Meanwhile Prime Minister Andy Burnham says the country is like "a tinderbox", as 200 personnel have now been deployed to help emergency teams tackling wildfires around the country. Burnham says UK is like a 'tinderbox' as West Midlands crews tackle multiple fires for second day Watch: 'Carnage' in Stourbridge as houses destroyed by fire As part of the military deployment, Gurkha logistics teams equipped with water tankers and military engineers are now assisting fire services in South Wales. Andy Burnham has promised more military personnel will be deployed elsewhere if needed. Crews in England and Wales tackled multiple blazes on Friday and an emergency alert was sent to millions of phones. A total of 1,017 wildfires have been recorded in England and Wales this year, according to data shared by the National Fire Chiefs Council (NFCC), which matches last year's record. As well as devastating blazes in the West Midlands which saw dozens of homes destroyed , fire crews have been in action across the two countries. In Wales, a major incident was declared near Llandovery, Carmarthenshire, after dozens of homes were evacuated and roads closed. In Hampshire, firefighters have spent a sixth day tackling a wildfire in the New Forest, which broke out on Sunday. Sixteen emergencies were tackled by Norfolk Fire and Rescue Service on Thursday afternoon, including a fire at Mousehold Heath in the city . On Friday evening, an emergency alert was sent to mobile phones warning of a "very high risk of wildfires nationally" across England and Wales. The message asked residents, landowners and visitors to not undertake any activity that could cause a fire "including disposable barbecues, firepits, garden incinerators of fireworks". It was the most extensive use of the system to date, according to the government. Disposable barbecues "cannot be considered a safe product" in the current conditions and they "must not be made available for sale either in store or online at the current time" in Great Britain, according to the advice published by the Department for Business, Innovation, Science and Trade (DBIST). , external The ban applies to England, Scotland and Wales, but not Northern Ireland. Business Secretary Jonathan Reynolds said the measures were "common-sense steps to protect lives and the environment." Blazes in the West Midlands led to thousands of 999 calls and caused "extensive" devastation All retailers will be receiving guidance about the change, which will be kept under review, Burnham told the BBC. He also said some of the wildfires burning across the country will have been started by disposable barbecues. Speaking to BBC Radio 5 Live's Matt Chorley, the prime minister said: "We've got 37 fires across England and Wales right now, four of them are major incidents." He added: "We're going into a difficult weekend, please just think about the situation that we're in. "Britain is a tinderbox right now. Setting a fire in any outdoor setting of any kind is a risk to other people's homes, it's a risk to other people's lives, don't do it, please don't do it." Many large retailers and supermarkets had already voluntarily stopped selling the devices under a framework agreed in 2023 , external between fire chiefs and the British Retail Consortium. It said that retailers should suspend sales once an extreme heat event has been declared as imminent, or in response to "reasonable