Farage faces renewed watchdog probe after Clacton by-election victory

Farage faces renewed watchdog probe after Clacton by-election victory Nigel Farage was pictured leaving a polling station during the vote on Thursday A parliamentary standards investigation into a £5m gift received by Nigel Farage has been reopened following the Reform UK leader's by-election win in Clacton. The investigation into an alleged failure to declare an interest was paused after Farage resigned as an MP last month in response to scrutiny of his financial backing, triggering the by-election. Farage won with 63% of the vote on a turnout of 44% in a highly unusual by-election that was contested by a record 34 candidates but was boycotted by all of the main Westminster parties. Farage did not show up at the count, telling supporters Essex Police had warned him of an "organised campaign to disrupt and degrade the result". The BBC has been told Essex Police did not advise any candidate that they should not attend the count. Speaking to supporters before the result was announced, Farage said: "I'm damned if I'm going to stand on a stage, having won a resounding victory, a ringing endorsement of all that I've tried to fight for, and you've tried to fight for, and be demeaned and humiliated by nobodies, and I will not sadly be attending the count." Reform UK cancelled what the party had billed as a "major speech" by Farage in Clacton on Friday morning and some scheduled media appearances. In a statement, the Reform leader said: "The verdict is now in, and it is a convincing, overwhelming win, with more votes than we got in the general election of 2024. "Today, the voters in Clacton have stuck up two fingers to the entire political establishment." Prime Minister Andy Burnham said he recognised that voters in the area had "come up with their answer" but that the investigation should continue. "It needs to be resolved to make sure we've got the highest standards in politics, and that's incumbent on all of us, including Mr Farage," he told BBC Radio 5 Live. Farage received 22,239 votes, 1,014 more than his winning total at the general election in 2024, when he first became the MP for Clacton, and increased his majority from 8,405 to 12,784. The turnout was about 14% lower than it was in the 2024 general election in the constituency but about average for recent Westminster by-elections. Where does this unorthodox by-election victory leave Nigel Farage? Count Binface gets almost 10,000 votes in Clacton by-election Before Farage quit his Clacton seat in July, Parliament's standards watchdog had been investigating him for not declaring a £5m gift he received from billionaire Reform UK donor Christopher Harborne before he became an MP. Hours after the Clacton result was declared, the Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards told the BBC "the investigation is not suspended anymore". If the investigation finds Farage has breached parliamentary rules, he could face suspension from the House of Commons and a process that could trigger another by-election in Clacton, potentially forcing him to fight for his seat again. Opposition parties have been calling for another such investigation into financial support he received from a different political ally, George Cottrell, ahead of the general election in 2024. Farage framed the by-election as a "people versus the establishment" showdown, saying the "people of Clacton should be the judges of my actions". But Labour, the Conservatives, the Liberal Democrats, the Greens and Restore Britain decided not to stand candidates against him, branding the contest a "gimmick" and a "circus". The result was announced on the floor of Clacton Leisure Centre, rather than on a stage, to make sure there was enough space for all the candidates. With Farage absent, the other candidates lined up as the returning officer spent five minutes declaring how many votes each of them received. Apart from Farage and Count Binface, all of them lost their £500 deposits because they failed to receive more than 5% of the total valid votes cast. Count Binface's 9,455 votes and 26.9%