What do people in Clacton think of Farage's by-election win?

What do people in Clacton think of Farage's by-election win? Staff at the count were faced with three-foot long ballot papers featuring 34 candidates People in Clacton-on-Sea have woken up to the news that Nigel Farage will be returning to Westminster as their local MP. The Reform UK leader secured 22,239 votes in the by-election he triggered by resigning in July, beating the 9,455 for second-placed Count Binface . It was the culmination of a showdown in the Clacton constituency, which was boycotted by the other major British parties. Farage won more votes than he did when those parties stood against him at the 2024 general election, when he got 21,225 crosses on a much higher turnout of 58%, compared to 44% on Thursday. However, a parliamentary investigation into Farage, who resigned the seat amid a row over his financial support, will now continue. What do people in the Essex town make of the by-election result? Zak Apsey said the investigation into Farage was "not a big deal" It was a "good result for Nigel", said Zak Apsey, but "it shouldn't really have needed to happen". He argued the investigation into Farage was "not a big deal". The Reform leader did not attend the result declaration, with his party saying the police had advised against it. However, the BBC understands this was not the case. "I wasn't disappointed he wasn't at the count. He was at his event, which is fine," Apsey added. "He was still in the constituency, so what's the big deal?" Jenny Hopkins said the result proved the people of Clacton wanted Farage Jenny Hopkins, who made the trip to Clacton from Gloucestershire, said she was "delighted, absolutely thrilled" with the result. "The fuss they've made about this so-called donation, gift or whatever it is - I think it is ridiculous," she said. "This has proved the people of Clacton want Nigel Farage. However many by-elections they have, I think he'll win." Linda Robinson questioned what Farage had achieved in Clacton Linda Robinson felt the by-election was unnecessary and said she was not a fan of Farage. "He's never here, is he? He's never in Clacton," she said. She said that would be "all well and good" if her MP achieved great things for the town, but she said she did not believe he had. While Max Barrett did not vote for Nigel Farage, he said the by-election had been positive for Clacton Max Barrett was one of those people who voted for self-styled intergalactic space warrior Count Binface. "It would be nice if he won, because it would be good for the area," Barrett said. "There'd be a lot more tourism and it'd just be interesting him representing this area." The Clacton resident said despite split opinions on the by-election, there were plenty of positives to take out of it. "The whole community has come out. We're all talking to each other, which is very nice, no matter the difference in opinion," he said. "We haven't had that for a very long time." John and Sue Wackett were in Clacton hours after the results were declared Some people in Clacton felt they were being used as part of a political "game", according to Sue Wackett, 70. She felt let down by the Conservatives, Labour, the Liberal Democrats and Greens for not fielding candidates. "It's got really nasty and for the first time in our lives, we try not to get involved in politics because it's scary," said Wackett. "We need to all rethink and start thinking of each other as human beings, all entitled to our own opinions." Mary Williams believed Nigel Farage was "the only hope" for Britain "I think the other parties were cowards not to stand," said Mary Williams, who travelled to Clacton from Wales to support Farage. "They've tried to make it into a circus. They're all absolutely convinced he's going to be found guilty of something." Pressure on Farage intensified after the Sunday Times reported he had not declared benefits , including staff and security, supplied with help from his long-term ally George Cottrell. He has also faced questions about a £5m gift from cryptocurrency investor Christopher Harbor