'Every day I'm just winging it': The families hoping for social care reform

'Every day I'm just winging it': The families hoping for social care reform Emma Riley is a dental nurse from Manchester, as was her mother Carol before she retired Andy Burnham has pledged to reform the adult social care system in England, meeting the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats to try to find "common ground" on the issue. He wants an independent review of care to be brought forward by a year to 2027, as well as major reforms to pay and conditions for staff and the creation of a national care service. But the prime minister said "difficult decisions" would have to be made on tax to fund sustainable change, adding that in an "ideal world" no-one should have to sell their home to pay for care. BBC Your Voice has been speaking to families affected by what they see as shortfalls in the system. Emma Riley has been caring for her mother Carol, who has dementia, since she lost her father 18 months ago. "She's a cracking lady, still with a sense of humour but she's living with this awful condition," said Riley, from Manchester. She is paying £34 an hour for a care company to come to the house three times a week, which she describes as a "huge chunk of money" although she is happy with the level of care. Riley wants to keep her mum in the family home, but the caring commitments affect her job as a dental nurse. She started applying to the local council for funding to support her mother at home at the beginning of the year, but six months on, she is still waiting for a final decision. "It's not the social worker's fault, it is just the caseload," she said. Riley called for more communication to help her navigate the system, adding: "I'm blindly going through it at the moment. "Every day I'm just winging it but there's a human being upstairs." Riley said she heard the prime minister's speech and it had left her feeling "quietly confident". Burnham has announced that a review of social care by veteran Whitehall troubleshooter Baroness Casey would now be published next summer. "I do think Baroness Casey will make the changes we need," Riley added. Burnham doesn't rule out tax rises to fix social care The Greenwood family in West Yorkshire say they have had to make "some very tough decisions" in caring for their mother, Mavis Lisa Greenwood, from Halifax, West Yorkshire, said she would be supportive of the prime minister if he managed to change how the care sector operates. "It does need changing and hopefully it will get better," she said. Greenwood said her family is having to make "some very tough decisions" in caring for her mother, Mavis, who is 90 and in local respite care. It is costing £1,305 a week, something Greenwood says the family "cannot sustain". She said they now face the prospect of having to sell her mother's home, describing this as "very distressing". Greenwood backs Burnham's proposal to increase pay in the sector and suggests it will help attract more staff. "Carers do need to be paid more," she said. "There are some fantastic people doing the job on little wages." Greenwood told the BBC's Your Voice that both her parents had worked "all their lives saving for the future". "Yet here we are in a situation of stress not knowing how we are going to continue with mum in the home," she added. "We can't give up our jobs, we need to work to pay our bills." Sophie and her father Stephen, who died in 2024 when she was just 16 Sophie Daniels was 16 when her father died in 2024 as a result of stage 4 glioblastoma, a highly aggressive brain tumour. The 18-year-old felt that there was a lack of support for her family. Along with her mother and sister, she looked after her father at their home in Swindon, Wiltshire, as "social care provision was incredibly limited". Daniels said: "We hardly had any help and we were left to figure things out ourselves. "Thankfully, charities helped us with that but towards the end my mum had to give up work to care for my dad." She said that one of the biggest practical challenges her family faced was a lack of a lifting service to help him move around the house. "H