Laura Kuenssberg: Our exclusive behind-the-scenes access at No 10 as Andy Burnham became PM

Laura Kuenssberg: Our exclusive behind-the-scenes access at No 10 as Andy Burnham became PM Our exclusive behind-the-scenes access at No 10 as Andy Burnham became PM "You can clap now," a Downing Street official with a clipboard instructed the staff eagerly lining the halls of No 10 in the moments before the new prime minister walked in. The applause duly began before the famous door opened, so the first sight and sound to greet Andy Burnham and his wife were crowds of clapping staff, crammed into the Downing Street hall. They stretched up the long corridor all the way to the door of the Cabinet Room - left ajar for him to walk straight in and get down to work. I've seen plenty of prime ministers come and go from outside No 10. But I'd never been allowed inside at that moment before , able to hover outside the Cabinet Room and grab a quick word with the country's new leader at such an intense, symbolic time. I have rarely seen a politician look as thoroughly delighted as Burnham, pride bursting out of his buttoned-up suit - that's right, the T-shirt and bomber jacket didn't make it to No 10 - or a leader who has wanted to stop and shake as many hands. Andy Burnham: The Laura Kuenssberg Interview What kind of prime minister will Andy Burnham be? In his first major broadcast interview since taking office, Laura Kuenssberg asks about his plans - and the challenges ahead. No 10 staff are already wondering if they'll ever be able to stick to a regular prime minister's schedule, normally designed with military precision. If Andy Burnham was able to take the time to stop and speak to everyone in the country, I suspect he probably would. It's a sign of his different style that our team was given permission to be behind the scenes at three key moments in the 59th prime minister's first week in charge - when he became Labour leader, when he walked into No 10, and on day one at his new Manchester outpost, No 10 North. Most important by far was our half-hour interview in that shiny new office, after weeks during which Burnham was chased by accusations he'd avoided tough questions. But the extra glimpses we were given, alongside Burnham's own voracious appetite for social media, display a prime minister that's not just at ease in front of the cameras, but a leader who wants to bring you along for the ride. They included revealing moments that are normally hidden - his first steps into the Cabinet Room to appoint his team, rating pub snacks with his Chancellor, John Healey, in an Instagram post , external , and sharing pictures with us of the family dog, Axel, whom he describes as having "angry little man energy". "Comms" - how politicians communicate and explain themselves and talk to the public - is not the be-all and end-all. Burnham's exploits online have already brought mockery and launched a thousand memes. But if a leader can't get your attention to make their arguments - as Keir Starmer found so challenging - ultimately, they are not going to get very far at all. And the biggest difference of the Labour reboot so far is how the government looks and sounds. They've put an obvious priority on punter-friendly announcements such as cutting VAT from energy bills and tax breaks for pubs - although it is important to note the details on how to pay for all of that are not yet clear. For Burnham though, telling his story is the easy part. Joking about the unique stink that accompanies Scampi Fries, or showing me his gold disc on loan from The Smiths' guitarist Johnny Marr, won't help him deal with US President Donald Trump, find money for defence, or create a new service to care for the elderly and vulnerable in England. Nor will it be any use as he grapples with the country's huge debts, changing demographics or public concerns about immigration. Listening carefully during our interview, it seemed Burnham had distinct gears. He was fluent and passionate on his familiar ground: his desire to sort out social care, his track record in Manchester, his desire to run a government that feels relevant and effective where you live, local l