Andy Burnham's first week pledges - how much do they add up to?

Andy Burnham's first week pledges - how much do they add up to? Andy Burnham is ending his first week as prime minister by working out of Manchester in the new No 10 North for the first time. He spent this week making a series of spending announcements mostly aimed at tackling the cost of living, including capping bus fares. BBC Verify has looked at Burnham's first week of spending commitments, how much they cost and how the government says they will be paid for, which comes to about £1.5bn. Here's how that breaks down and what could later be coming down the line. In his speech outside Downing Street , external on Monday, Burnham said his "first instruction" would be "to end rough sleeping in our country". The most recent official data , external suggests that there were around 4,800 people sleeping rough on a single night in England in 2025, up from 1,800 in 2010. The government announced that Burnham's "instruction" would be delivered by £340m of spending, which it said would support at least 3,000 people over a five year period. It said this money would come from existing "uncommitted" budgets in the housing department. This means that the funding has been made available by the Treasury to the department but had not yet been assigned to a specific project. On Tuesday morning the Treasury announced that it would cut , external VAT from domestic electricity bills in the current financial year, knocking an estimated £45 from the typical household's annual bill from the autumn. It said this would cost £850m in 2026-27 - to be funded by scrapping the previous government's digital ID scheme, which had been estimated to cost £1.8bn over the next three years. However, the Office for Budget Responsibility, the official spending watchdog, made clear in the last budget that the digital ID scheme was itself "unfunded" , external at that stage. That implies that while scrapping the digital ID scheme will reduce a spending pressure on the government it will not, in itself, pay for the VAT cut. That tax cut will have to be funded in the next budget, either by tax rises or specific spending cuts elsewhere. Five headaches Andy Burnham will have to deal with as PM Three reasons why UK electricity prices are so high Can Andy Burnham solve the housing crisis? On Wednesday, the government announced it would reduce the cap on bus fares , external in England from £3 to £2 from 1 January 2027, though this does not include London. It estimated this cap would cost the Department for Transport more than £500m. It said most of this would be found by replacing grants for international climate projects with loans. This would save the government money because the loans would be expected to be paid back in full, plus interest, freeing up funds to pay for the bus cap policy. But there are still uncertainties with this approach, said Max Warner from the Institute for Fiscal Studies. "It's not clear how much we would expect to be paid back nor what the interest rates will be," he said. On Thursday the government announced it would cut business rates for pubs , external , clubs and live music venues in England by 20% from April 2027, saving a typical pub £1,100. It estimated that this tax cut would cost the Treasury around £100m a year. The government claimed it would be "fully funded" but did not provide details, beyond stating that part of the cost would be met by "reviewing reliefs for businesses that do not make a positive contribution to local communities, such as vape shops". It did not state what other kinds of businesses would fall into this category. The Starmer government had already announced a business rates support package , external for pubs in England in January, with a 15% cut applying in the current financial year of 2026-27 and a real-terms freeze in their rates for the subsequent two years. At that time officials estimated that package would cost £80m in its first year, and the cost in the subsequent two years would be calculated in due course by the Office for Budget Responsibility. The latest business