Who's in Andy Burnham's cabinet?

Who's in Andy Burnham's cabinet? Prime Minister Andy Burnham has announced his new cabinet after taking office following the resignation of Sir Keir Starmer. Tap or click on a person in our interactive guide below to learn more about them and their role in government. Andy Burnham is the prime minister, after winning the backing of 379 of Labour's 403 MPs as the best person to replace Sir Keir Starmer. He has pledged to shift power away from Whitehall, introduce "greater public control" of the water and energy sectors and to build more council houses - while keeping Labour’s election pledge not to raise the main rates of income tax or National Insurance. He also promised to provide "breathing space" for households struggling with the cost of living. Born in Aintree in 1970, Burnham was inspired by the miners’ strike to join the Labour Party in his teens and first became an MP in 2001. The former health secretary had twice failed to become party leader - losing to Ed Miliband in 2010 and Jeremy Corbyn in 2015 - and after leaving Parliament, served as Greater Manchester mayor. He returned as Makerfield MP in June and succeeded Sir Keir Starmer a month later. A life-long Everton fan and talented sportsman, he was part of Labour's Demon Eyes FC football team when Tony Blair was PM, and regularly featured in the Labour MPs vs Lobby journalists match while in Parliament. He also promised to provide "breathing space" for households struggling with the cost of living. Born in Aintree in 1970, Burnham was inspired by the miners’ strike to join the Labour Party in his teens and first became an MP in 2001. The former health secretary had twice failed to become party leader - losing to Ed Miliband in 2010 and Jeremy Corbyn in 2015 - and after leaving Parliament, served as Greater Manchester mayor. He returned as Makerfield MP in June and succeeded Sir Keir Starmer a month later. A life-long Everton fan and talented sportsman, he was part of Labour's Demon Eyes FC football team when Tony Blair was PM, and regularly featured in the Labour MPs vs Lobby journalists match while in Parliament. John Healey returned to the cabinet as chancellor of the exchequer, less than two months after quitting as defence secretary. A former Treasury minister, Healey had recently attacked what he called a "Treasury orthodoxy that's a dead hand on dynamic government" that viewed defence as "a drain rather than a driver of growth". Senior figures in government say he shares Burnham's ambitions for reindustrialisation and devolution. He now faces the task of making the government's spending plans add up. It is a surprise appointment for the MP for Rawmarsh and Conisbrough in South Yorkshire, with many speculating the role would go to Ed Miliband or Shabana Mahmood. Healey was parliamentary private secretary to Chancellor Gordon Brown from 1999 to 2001, before serving as adult skills, Treasury, local government and housing minister between 2001 and 2010. Louise Haigh has become chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, first secretary of state and Cabinet Office minister. Haigh, one of Andy Burnham’s closest allies, will run the Cabinet Office, the department that supports the prime minister and co-ordinates the government’s policies to deliver its agenda. Her appointment as first secretary of state underlines her senior status in government and cements her place at the heart of Burnham's administration, after she was among a small group of trusted allies involved in preparations for the transition to power. After entering parliament as MP for Sheffield Heeley in 2015, Haigh was named the hardest-working new MP in 2016 due to the number of her Commons speeches and questions, and praised by then-Speaker John Bercow for her "terrier-like intensity". In 2025, the former special constable and Unite union shop steward became the first person to resign from Sir Keir Starmer’s cabinet as transport secretary after it emerged that she had admitted a fraud offence in 2013. On the backbenches she emerged as a c