Prisoner release row proving to be Burnham's first big test as PM

Prisoner release row proving to be Burnham's first big test as PM Three weeks into his premiership, Andy Burnham has "hit bumps in the road" in the estimation of one long-serving Labour MP with the row over the early release of some prisoners from jail. His political opponents are already sharpening their attacks, believing they have found an issue with which to discomfit a new prime minister early in his time in office who had, until now, displayed a pretty deft political touch. Conservative Shadow Home Secretary Chris Philp said: "This the most important decision Andy Burnham has made since he became prime minister and he's got it wrong." For Labour MPs, however, this week has shown Burnham is prepared to confront difficult choices and take decisions which, as he said in his first speech in Downing Street, are "more about problem solving than point scoring". Burnham's first two weeks in the job were pretty problem free, with a succession of announcements, from a cap on bus fares to a determination to overhaul of social care, along with a blitz of social media videos, all designed to portray a more relaxed PM with a focus on everyday issues. The overcrowding crisis in our prisons has presented him with a dilemma for which there are only unpalatable choices. Crucially too, they are some of the first difficult choices Burnham has had to make in office. The issue long predates his arrival in Downing Street. In 2023, with space in jails on the verge of running out, the last Conservative government started releasing prisoners 18 days early. That was only a temporary fix. Just days after becoming prime minister in July 2024, Sir Keir Starmer had to contemplate a more far-reaching prisoner release scheme, saying "it is shocking for our country to have got into a state where we have too many prisoners and not enough prison places". In January this year, Sir Keir's government passed the Sentencing Act under which several thousand prisoners will be released early starting this autumn, including some convicted of very serious crimes. HMP Wandsworth, in London, is Britain's most overcrowded prison Andy Burnham, aware of how sensitive this would be, immediately ordered a review. His frustration was evident when he announced he was removing some categories of prisoner from early release, rapists and child sex offenders among them, but not others. "The truth is I wanted to go even further," he said, "I have pushed to the very limits of what is possible to do". The Conservatives seized on the fact that his decisions mean that among those still being let out early will be some who committed grooming-related crimes as well as some killers, including those of PC Andrew Harper. "The Labour government has made mistake after mistake on this early release scheme," said Chris Philp. "Despite our warnings in Parliament, they initially planned to release rapists and dangerous criminals. "But, even after Andy Burnham's review, it turns out they still plan to release cop-killers and men involved in the grooming gang scandal early. It's an insult to PC Harper's family and many other victims." Up against Sir Keir, Conservative leader Kemi Badenoch managed to find issues she could use to force him on to the back foot and into what turned out to be a damaging series of policy shifts. She has seized on the early releases to do try to do the same with his successor. A first sign of that came when Burnham had to "personally intervene" this week, his spokesperson said, to order officials to find out how many people convicted of grooming-related offences might still be getting early release. That came after Badenoch highlighted the issue in an open letter to him. The Conservatives are now considering how they can keep the pressure up when parliament returns in September. They will aim to place Labour MPs in an uncomfortable position if the issue can be debated in the Commons. What's behind having to release some prisoners early? Officer who led PC Harper investigation 'appalled' killers could be released early Burnham orders r