Analysis: Burnham's policy choices reveal what kind of PM he wants to be

Analysis: Burnham's policy choices reveal what kind of PM he wants to be Andy Burnham has been very tight-lipped about policies he would pursue when he moved into Number 10 but we now know more about what his priorities will be – and what it tells about the kind of prime minister he wants to be. His main announcement on day one in the job - before he had even walked through the doors at Number 10 - was about rough sleeping. In an email to Labour members, sent shortly after he delivered his speech, he said: "We are going to end rough sleeping in this country at the first opportunity. "People have told me it would take decades. Some say it's impossible. I'm not having that." This, he tells Labour members and supporters, "shows you exactly what kind of government I intend to lead". This is an example of his much-vaunted plan to bring "Manchesterism" to the rest of the UK. As mayor of Greater Manchester he made ending rough sleeping a priority when he was elected to the role in 2017. His hopes of eradicating it by 2020 were dashed, although numbers are still down significantly on what they were 10 years ago. But it is also about showing Labour members and supporters that when he pledged to be "authentically Labour", he meant it - he would be standing up for some of the poorest and most vulnerable in society. The announcement will go over well with Labour's left wing. In 2023, former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn revealed that he had planned to make a similar announcement on his first day as prime minister. But it is also likely to be welcomed by all wings of the party - something that can not be said about all of his planned policies. Andy Burnham pledges cost of living help in first speech as prime minister Burnham pledges to end rough sleeping in first speech as prime minister He'll be the first Andy in No 10 - but his rise to power has been decades in the making Later this week, he is expected to change the government's stance on oil and gas exploitation, with a new energy secretary in place. Those Labour MPs worried about the Green Party taking their seats will be concerned about this - but a lot more will be worried about whether this could be seen to be diluting the government's commitment to net zero. There was also a promise to do something about the cost of living, with more detail tomorrow on the "breathing space" he is offering hard-pressed families. Extending Manchester's £2 bus fare cap would be a tangible step and also different from the £3 cap under Keir Starmer and Rachel Reeves. With energy prices rising again, there may be action there. The former minister, Miatta Fahnbulleh, has spent the past few weeks working on policy options. She is the former head of the New Economic Foundation think tank and it wants bolder cost of living measures – from rent controls to making bus journeys entirely free for under 25s. The question though is whether Burnham will go beyond announcing specific policies and outline a broader vision. He indicated in his speech that he would set out how the cost of living measures will be paid for. So will he make the greater argument - which he believes - that taxes on income are too high, taxes on wealth are too low? Will he expand on his Times interview and pledge to raise tax thresholds at least for basic rate taxpayers, while pushing up capital gains tax? Burnham has said he will be "looking at" the tax-free personal allowance ahead of his first Budget in the autumn but stressed that changing it would be "difficult" in the current economic circumstances, and it could have "significant consequences". But if he wants to address people's priorities more than his predecessor he may have to find a way to fund this as he also said he had "heard issues related to the personal allowance more than anything on the doorsteps in Makerfield" (the seat he represents). He has pledged to stick to Rachel Reeves's "fiscal rules," which limit debt and borrowing - so it is likely to be "re-prioritisation" of existing spending rather than new money. But that can still tell its own st