Burnham does not rule out wealth tax

Burnham does not rule out wealth tax Andy Burnham has not ruled out a wealth tax, suggesting his incoming government may have "to ask for a little more" tax at some point. Burnham, who is due to become prime minister on Monday, was asked whether he was considering a wealth tax in an interview , external with former footballer and Match of the Day presenter Gary Lineker. The Labour MP said he would take time to review the state of the public finances and wanted to focus on "bringing people together" rather than creating "new divisions". "I'm not going rule things out right now," Burnham said. "I do believe we need a greater sense of fairness." The former Greater Manchester mayor said "decisions to be taken in time" were "going to be difficult". "I'm not going to shy away from that," Burnham said. "You know, we are going to have to work quite hard to make sure, you know, we can pay our way. "And at some point that might be having to ask for a little more. But, you know, those decisions are not for now. They're for another day." Burnham has not set out in detail what tax policies he would pursue since he declared his intention to replace Sir Keir Starmer as Labour leader and prime minister, following his by-election win in Makerfield last month. He has given a few clues in interviews, including one with LBC, in which he said he felt there was "some room" for movement on tax . Burnham suggested business rates on warehouses could be increased to fund tax cuts for pubs and some high-street businesses. But the Makerfield MP said he would stick to the pledges Labour made not to raise VAT, income tax or national insurance in its general election manifesto in 2024. With options for raising revenue limited outside of these manifesto commitments, some Labour MPs on the left of the party, economists and campaigners have suggested a tax on wealth. One proposal - backed by Oxfam and Tax Justice UK among others - is a 2% levy on assets over £10m. The Green Party of England and Wales backs a similar policy, a wealth tax of 1% annually on assets above £10m and of 2% on assets above £1bn. Reform UK's Treasury spokesman Robert Jenrick said Burnham had admitted "people will have to pay more in tax" in his interview with Lineker. "He should rule out the ten taxes - £3,450 for every family - he's previously supported but has no mandate for," Jenrick wrote in a post on X. Conservative leader Kemi Badenoch said Burnham was not even prime minister yet "but he's already talking about raising your taxes again". "We are heading for another summer of chaos with Labour obsessing about who they can tax to pay for more benefits," Badenoch said. In his interview with Lineker, Burnham was also asked how he would deal with US President Donald Trump. Burnham said he would "meet him where he's at". "I like to think I've got some personality myself and I'll just, you know, I'll deal with him very upfront in the same way," Burnham said. "I think he likes people to deal with him." Burnham also repeated his criticism of Labour's initial response to the war in Gaza , saying his party "got it wrong". He condemned the 7 October Hamas attack on Israel, and said he had "real concerns about the destruction of Gaza" since then. He said it was "possible to criticise both things, rather than just pick a side". Burnham says there is some room for movement on tax Burnham will deal with living costs in short term, key adviser says Wes Streeting pledges 'wealth tax that works' Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vape