Ruthless plotter? Flip-flopper? Dad dancer? Insiders reveal the real Andy Burnham

Ruthless plotter? Flip-flopper? Dad dancer? Insiders reveal the real Andy Burnham Ruthless plotter? Flip-flopper? Dad dancer? Insiders reveal the real Andy Burnham Who is Andy Burnham? There are plenty of labels to pick from. King of the north, the well-liked mayor of Greater Manchester. Ruthless plotter – the man who led a shadow revolt to oust the prime minister. Gig-goer. Everton fan and season ticket holder, who wants to try and sit in the stands even when he is running the country. Poetry lover. Experienced former cabinet minister. Cambridge graduate. Flip-flopper – a charge chucked at him by political critics. Deeply proud family man and centrist dad, unafraid to display his moves to True Faith by New Order, the track he picked to play at an event to celebrate taking over the Labour Party. The 56-year-old is going to become the 59th prime minister on Monday. To understand who he is, I've spoken to more than 20 people who have worked with him over the last few decades – old friends and rivals, as well as current and former cabinet ministers. Burnham is unusual in politics because even colleagues who are furious that he ousted Sir Keir Starmer say he is an affable and decent person. But does he have the experience and skills to pick Labour's morale up off the floor, and tackle the deep problems the country has? One old friend wonders: "He is a lovely bloke, but I just don't know if he is up to it – that is the honest question." Being Mr Nice Guy isn't enough to be an effective prime minister in a confusing and brutal political era. But you can be ruthless with a smile, and Andy Burnham is willing to follow advice from one of the most effective leaders of recent decades – not one of the prime ministers, but Sir Alex Ferguson. I'm told the former Manchester United boss bumped into Burnham and wanted to chat politics. He wanted to know why there had been so much bad blood and briefing between Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, saying if he'd been Blair, he would have "got him in a room, and said, you're either with me, or you can sod off". The actual phrasing he used was far ruder than that – but you get the drift. A close ally of Burnham told me: "We might need the Ferguson hairdryer – this is our moment and we might have to tell people, if you're not with me, well bye, and thanks for your time." Another colleague says Burnham is absolutely determined to set the direction of the new government, and "will be all over every one and everything and there will only be room for his agenda". What looks like a decision to allow new drilling for oil and gas in the North Sea seems to be evidence of that, as it goes totally against the desire of current Energy Secretary Ed Miliband, one of the cabinet ministers who helped Burnham by telling Sir Keir that time was up. Highlighting the example, they told me: "Burnham is ruthless in every way - Ed helped lever him in - and the first keynote policy is a slap in the face – he looks cuddly to the public but he is a total hammer." For all the happy vibes and dad dancing at the Labour event yesterday, in the party there are real doubts about whether Burnham is up to the mark. His career started in Westminster decades ago. After a short spell as a journalist on trade magazines, even one named Tank World, he went into Parliament as a researcher to the former minister Tessa Jowell, then stood as an MP, and before long became a junior minister, quickly rising up the ranks to the cabinet in 2007 when he became chief secretary to the Treasury. Burnham was popular but didn't always feel at home. One old friend remembers that era, of political success for the Labour Party and huge opportunities for a new generation, saying "we were northern hicks who bizarrely found ourselves in the crazy Westminster world – it was a heady time". While well-liked, some in the party saw him as flimsy, with all the chat, but not the substance. One of his old bosses, Alistair Darling, the chancellor during the financial crisis, once memorably told me with affection, but in frustration, "Andy? He's like a lo