Two accused of drug trafficking after UK-Nigeria investigation

Two accused of drug trafficking after UK-Nigeria investigation A man and a woman have been charged with international drugs trafficking offences as part of an investigation involving police in the UK and Nigeria. Oladipupo Atandare, 50, from Dagenham and Latifat Yusuf, 44, from Hornchurch were arrested following the seizure of more than 180kg (397lb) of cocaine in the UK on 5 August. They appeared at Barkingside Magistrates Court on 8 August and were remanded in custody. They will next appear at Snaresbrook Crown Court on 7 September. The Metropolitan Police said the arrests related to solely the UK drugs seizure, but inquiries are continuing into the discovery of a similar-sized amount of cocaine in Nigeria. On Tuesday Nigerian authorities said they had discovered 184.5kg of cocaine, worth about £20m, in brown boxes at a courier facility in Lagos. There have been a series of arrests in Nigeria, including a logistics company employee and a social media influencer with nearly 700,000 followers on Instagram. Afolabi Kazeem Micheal, AKA "KC Luxury", has not commented on the allegations Afolabi Kazeem Michael, who is 49 and known online as KC Luxury, presented himself as a businessman and influencer dealing in gold and luxury goods, and regularly posted videos of his flashy cars. Nigerian law enforcement agencies have accused him of being the Nigerian "arrowhead" of an international drug cartel. Nigeria influencer arrested after seizure of cocaine worth $28m destined for the UK Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.