Emma Barnett reveals she 'had the hysterectomy I never wanted to have'

Emma Barnett reveals she 'had the hysterectomy I never wanted to have' Barnett said it was "totally surreal" to be in hospital on the night her documentary was broadcast BBC presenter Emma Barnett has revealed she had a hysterectomy and surgery for endometriosis days before a documentary she made about the condition was broadcast. Barnett, 41, returned to Radio 4's Today programme on Wednesday morning, explaining she had been absent in recent weeks because she was in hospital "in a case of life imitating work". She told listeners: "I made a programme on endometriosis on BBC Two and ended up being in hospital for endometriosis. "So yes, I've been recuperating, shall we say, from surgery for endometriosis and a hysterectomy to boot. So that's been less fun than the Today programme, but it is lovely to be back." Barnett's announcement came soon after she published a blog about the "hysterectomy I never wanted to have" , external . The presenter, who has two children, said it was "totally surreal" to be in hospital on the night her documentary was broadcast in June, only well enough to watch the final 10 minutes. "Some 48 hours before the documentary aired - I had undergone a near-5 hour surgery and somehow found myself lying in bed recovering from extensive endometriosis surgery, a hysterectomy and a gallbladder removal," she wrote. "Triple threat. Go big or go home. Life imitating art." She added: "I felt blind-sided and robbed, even though my care had been superb and doctors, utterly brilliant. "But this was not the road I had envisioned for myself. I had the hysterectomy I never wanted to have." Watch Emma Barnett: Fighting Endometriosis on BBC iPlayer Endometriosis is where cells similar to those in the lining of the womb grow in other parts of the body, resulting in what Barnett has described as "bone-grinding, life-altering pain". It affects one in 10 women and there is no known cure. A hysterectomy is a surgical procedure to remove the womb (uterus). A hysterectomy alongside removal of endometriosis can reduce the risk of recurrence, according to Endometriosis UK , external . In her blog, Barnett also said she suspected most of her pain may have been down to another condition, adenomyosis, which can be treated by a hysterectomy. Her surgery was necessitated after she had an ultrasound while filming the final scene of the documentary, and a problem in her gallbladder was found. "Suddenly things became urgent and non negotiable." The broadcaster added that she was hopeful that the surgery had helped. She wrote: "Early indications are that the pain is very much improved - although I am still healing from the surgery itself so that also feels uncertain and frightening to admit - even to myself." Emma Barnett: We can't ignore this disease that leaves one in 10 women like me in agony Perimenopause at 38? I felt robbed, says Emma Barnett Emma Barnett to join Radio 4's Today programme Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Students wait for GCSE and BTec grades as app launches for 750 schools in England Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK 