Single guilty verdict in Palestine Action trial

Single guilty verdict in Palestine Action trial The Elbit Systems UK factory in Filton, near Bristol, was raided on 6 August 2024 A jury has been discharged after reaching a single guilty verdict in the trial of eight Palestine Action activists who were accused of helping to organise a raid on the UK site of an Israel-based defence firm The jury at the Old Bailey spent more than 37 hours considering evidence, but failed to reach verdicts on 14 of 15 charges relating to the raid at the Elbit Systems Ltd factory in Filton, near Bristol, in August 2024. One guilty verdict, for criminal damage, was passed on Tuesday, but the defendant cannot be named for legal reasons. Prosecutors will now consider seeking a retrial for the unresolved charges - but any trial could be a year away due to backlogs in the Crown Courts. Palestine Action members broke into the Elbit Systems Ltd factory on 6 August 2024 and their own footage shows they began destroying equipment, including drones, which they believe were destined for use by the Israeli Defence Forces in Gaza. The firm has contracts with the British military and other Nato members and has previously said that claims that its Bristol factory supplies Israeli forces is "completely false". The defendants, who must now wait to see if they face a retrial, are: Aleksandra Herbich, 42, of Brent in north-west London Teuta Hoxha, 30, of Southwark in south-east London Julija Brigadirova, 34, from Chorlton in Manchester The Old Bailey trial was opened on 22 June and all eight defendants had denied charges of criminal damage and violent disorder. During the case, Plastow, 35, was cleared of violent disorder. The court heard none of the defendants were at Elbit during raid, but were alleged to have helped to plan it, including by compiling an equipment list, carrying out reconnaissance, purchasing tools and weapons used by others, and co-ordinating other elements of the break-in - such as filming the incident. Four people have already been convicted and jailed for their roles in the break-in and the eight defendants in this second trial were not part of that on-the-ground team. Judge Patrick Field KC discharged the Old Bailey jury on Wednesday, the day after it convicted one of the defendants of criminal damage by a majority of nine to one, but reached no other decisions. The Crown Prosecution Service will now need to decide whether to seek a retrial. A hearing has been set for 14 September to decide the future of the case. Tell us which stories we should cover in Bristol Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook , external , X , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630 . Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to co