Snooker champion Dott told boy to stay out while in room with girl, jury told

Snooker champion Dott told boy to stay out while in room with girl, jury told Dott, seen here at the Crucible in Sheffield in 2019, won the world championship title in 2006 Snooker player Graeme Dott allegedly told a boy to stay out while he was in a room with a girl he is accused of abusing. The High Court in Glasgow heard that the former world champion is alleged to have become "quite angry" when the child walked in. Dott, 49, is accused of lewd and libidinous behaviour towards two youngsters, a girl and a boy, between 1993 and 2010. Jurors earlier heard a number of sexual accusations from the girl, who is now in her 40s, against Dott, including inappropriate touching at a house in Glasgow. A male witness, who knew the girl when they were both children, gave evidence and said there were occasions when they would be together and Dott would also be there. Prosecutor Lindsey Dalziel asked the witness if there was a time he noticed something about Dott's behaviour towards her when they were all together. The man replied: "Yes, maybe I was nine or 10 years old. I remember him telling me not to go into the room when he was in with her." More stories from Glasgow & West Scotland The witness claimed this occurred "more than once" at the house in Glasgow. Dalziel asked what happened after he allegedly was asked to stay out of the room. "When an adult told you not to do something, you generally did not do it," the man said. He then stated he had a "vague memory" of going in at some stage despite the alleged warning. Asked if he could recall anything else, the witness went on: "Not really. I remember being told to leave." Dalziel asked the man to confirm who it was he claimed had told him to leave, to which he answered: "Graeme. I think he was quite angry." The witness initially gave a police statement in 2001 before speaking to officers again in 2025. Euan Dow, defending, questioned him on what he said on the earlier date. This included the man, a teenager at the time, stating: "I cannot remember walking into the room." Snooker player Graeme Dott goes on trial over child abuse allegations He also told officers: "I have not got a very good memory." Speaking in court, the witness said it had been a "long time ago" but claimed his memory had improved during what Dow described as the "passage of time". However, the defence advocate said it appeared there was "no mention at all about being told to stay out of the room" by Dott. The trial earlier heard the completion of the then girl's evidence. Among the allegations she made were that Dott "caressed" her bottom while giving her a piggyback or "coaksey" and that he also separately exposed himself. Jurors heard how she told a friend and others a number of years later about what she claimed occurred. Dow quizzed the witness about a conversation she had with one woman about the accusations. The advocate asked at one stage: "Did you say that you could take it to the newspapers and make a lot of money?" The trial also heard from a woman who the girl spoke to about the allegations when she was a teenager. This woman later had a conversation with a relative of Dott's regarding the claims. Recalling what the family member said, the witness told jurors: "She said there was no truth in what (the girl) said and that it was a pack of lies. "She was very hostile towards me. She accused me of being naive and being taken in by her pack of lies." The trial, before Lord Harrower, continues. Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn