'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy'

'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' News that the Duke and Duchess of Sussex plan to move back to the UK is prominent across Thursday's papers with several printing late editions to fit it in. "Harry's coming home" says the Daily Telegraph as it reports the couple intends to relocate from the US later this month with their children Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet enrolled to start at a British school in September. "Harry and Meg coming home" echoes the Sun, "six years after Megxit". The paper says the "shock return" will be for "an extended period" and the family have already found a new home in the UK. "Royal return" is the Times's headline as it says Prince Harry and Meghan's new home in the UK will be a private, non-royal residence thought to be outside of London. The Daily Mail calls Harry and Meghan's return "a royal sensation" as it pictures the couple holding their daughter Princess Lilibet. Elsewhere, the paper says a Home Office guidebook handed out to asylum seekers includes a warning that having sex with someone without their consent "is a serious crime in the UK". The document sets out the "rules and expectations" of living in the UK and is part of an education campaign for those looking to stay in the country. The Daily Express says there is "outcry" over the guidebook having to explicitly give asylum seekers advice on how to behave towards women. The Daily Mirror has more details of the three members of a family who died at Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex. The paper says the father who drowned with his partner and teenage daughter was a refugee who fled Palestine a decade ago. The family's younger daughter is still in critical condition in hospital. Metro says the family is among many victims in a "summer of swim deaths". At least 35 people have drowned so far during record-breaking heatwaves according to data by the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. Sir Keir Starmer's former chief of staff revealed how "unbearable" it was working in No 10, saying she feared she was being recorded by colleagues, the Guardian reports. Sue Gray, who the paper says was "the most powerful adviser" in Downing Street before resigning in 2024, criticised the working environment under Sir Keir on a podcast. The Financial Times leads with US vaccine-maker Moderna's shares more than doubling in value after it reported successful trial results for an experimental skin cancer therapy. Jointly developed with Merck, the therapy would be "unprecedented" in cancer treatment, with custom-made vaccines for specific tumours. Analysts are expecting US regulatory approval next year. The i Paper's top story also covers the landmark vaccine trial, which found patients with high-risk melanoma remained free of cancer for longer after surgery. The Daily Star splashes with the story of a woman who found a bat in her toilet after it flew in the bathroom for a drink of water. "Draculoo" is the headline. Sign up for our morning newsletter and get BBC News in your inbox. Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch