Former Liberian vice president charged in drug-trafficking probe

Former Liberian vice president charged in drug-trafficking probe Jewel Cianeh Taylor was Vice President of Liberia from 2018 to 2024 Liberia has charged former Vice President Jewel Howard-Taylor with drug trafficking, money laundering and a range of other offences, the country's Justice Ministry announced. Howard-Taylor, who served as vice president for six years to 2024, was detained before boarding a flight to leave Liberia at Roberts International Airport in the capital, Monrovia. She was taken to national police headquarters, and has yet to make any public comments about the charges. The West African country has launched a major crackdown of transnational drug trades, particularly cocaine trafficking, in recent years. Howard-Taylor is accused of illegally importing, selling and transporting controlled drugs, as well as helping to facilitate drug trafficking. Police have charged three foreign nationals – two Croatians and one Ukrainian – in absentia as part of their investigation. They are accused of being part of the same network as Howard-Taylor. Liberian authorities say they are determined to apprehend the foreign nationals, and that they are targeting all parts of the drug-trafficking network: organisers, facilitators and financiers. In recent months, officials have conducted multiple drug trafficking seizures, with some of them among the largest in the country's history. She held a senior role in former President George Weah's administration, whose six years in power from 2018 to 2024 was plagued with allegations of corruption and financial mismanagement. When President Joseph Boakai took over, he pledged to crack down on corruption. He has also said that he does not want Liberia to turn into a haven for drug trafficking. West Africa is increasingly a major transit route for cocaine trading from South America to Europe. Don't ask Liberia's president for a job - he's fed up Liberia agrees to accept 1,200 foreign deportees from the US Arrest warrant issued for Libera's ex-finance minister Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Students wait for GCSE and BTec grades as app launches for 750 schools in England Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.