Missing teen hiker found dead in Australian bush after eight-day search

Missing teen hiker found dead in Australian bush after eight-day search Lily Hooper, 18, was found dead after an eight-day search in the Australian bush The body of a woman has been found in Australian bushland, following an eight-day search for a Sydney teenager reported missing last Wednesday. Police said that while the body was yet to be formally identified, it was believed to be that of 18-year-old Lily Hooper. The confirmation came after local media reported that she had been found alive. The teenager left her home in Sydney to go walking in a nearby national park on 12 August. Her family reported her missing later that night, after she failed to return home by 10pm. Her car was found in a car park at the bottom of a challenging trail in the Nattai National Park. Police said that the woman's body was found in the Southern Highlands at approximately 11:30 local time on Thursday. There was initial confusion as to Hooper's condition, after New South Wales Premier Chris Minns told a parliamentary hearing that she had been found alive. Local media suggested that her family had also been informed that she was alive. Minns corrected himself shortly afterwards, and told the hearing that "Lily's body has been found" and she was deceased. "This is obviously devastating, and I'm profoundly sad for her family and for all those concerned," said Minns, and apologised to the committee. A multi-agency search for the missing bushwalker had taken place over the past week, with support from multiple NSW Police Force units including PolAir, the Rescue Unit, the Trail Bike Unit, the Mounted Unit and the Dog Unit. Police have also been supported by the Rural Fire Service, the National Parks and Wildlife Service and almost 100 members of the Australian Defence Force. Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.