Two detained after French influencer's scorched body found in vineyard

Two detained after French influencer's scorched body found in vineyard Sonia Bellina had been visiting her family in southern France ahead of her 30th birthday Two men have been detained after a young woman's burned body was found in a vineyard in southern France, the local prosecutor has said. In a statement on Wednesday, Nîmes prosecutor Cécile Gensac confirmed the body found in the Saint-Gilles vineyard belonged to social media influencer Sonia Bellina. The 29-year-old had a following of around 260,000 on TikTok and was visiting her family in the area a month before her 30th birthday. The two men were taken into police custody on Wednesday due to "evidence suggesting their direct or indirect involvement in the incident", the prosecutor said. Police opened a murder investigation after a farmer found a body lying between rows of vines in the village near Nîmes on 12 August, but authorities did not confirm Bellina's identity for several days. The prosecutor's initial assessment was that the body belonged to a young woman, but more tests were needed to confirm who it was. In their latest update on Wednesday, Gensac said authorities could now confirm Bellina's identity after various investigations and DNA analysis. She acknowledged that Bellina's name had been "widely circulated over the past 48 hours". Prior to Gensac's update, the family's lawyer told French media that relatives were sure the body was Bellina's. Mourad Battikh told broadcaster RTL the 29-year-old's body had been "abandoned" and "almost thrown away like garbage" in what he described as "a murder of rare savagery". In the days since the scorched body was found, the identity and the circumstances of the death had sparked online speculation and rumours. A woman who described herself as the influencer's sister - but did not share her name - said she was convinced the body found in the Saint-Gilles vineyard was her sister's before it was confirmed. In an interview with the Midi Libre newspaper, she shared her family's ordeal and the harassment she says they have faced. According to her, some people have said Bellina "deserved what happened to her". The family's lawyer has been firm in regards to online comments, saying he would "let nothing slide". Anything published would be subject to scrutiny and reported if necessary, Battikh said. "The family is going through an extremely violent ordeal," he said in a press release, adding: "They request respect for their privacy and their grief and will not be making any further statements". Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-ha