Head-on collision between bus and lorry in Brazil kills more than 20

Head-on collision between bus and lorry in Brazil kills more than 20 The crash happened in the early hours of Wednesday morning local time At least 23 people, among them two children, have been killed and another five injured in a head-on collision between a minibus and a lorry in southern Brazil, highway police say. The crash happened early on Wednesday local time on the BR-373 highway in the southern state of Paraná. Local media reported that the minibus belonged to the health authorities of the nearby city of Imbituva and was transporting patients and their relatives to health appointments in Ponta Grossa, some 60km (36 miles) away. Authorities have opened an investigation to determine what may have caused the two vehicles to crash into each other. Among those killed is the driver of the lorry, police said. The highway was closed for almost seven hours while forensic experts and members of Brazil's federal highway police examined the site of the crash, which is located at kilometre 209. Deadly road traffic accidents are not uncommon in Brazil. According to a study published by the World Bank, more than 34,000 people died in such accidents in 2023, most of them were motorcyclists. Research suggests excessive speed, inebriated drivers and the use of mobile phones while driving is often the cause. In February, 15 people died on board a bus carrying pilgrims to a festival in the north-eastern state of Ceará. Bus carrying pilgrims overturns in Brazil killing 15 on board Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Vapes could lead to health harms in children, doctors warn Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.