Trial of mum accused of killing her three children puts postpartum psychosis on the map

Trial of mum accused of killing her three children puts postpartum psychosis on the map Watch: What is postpartum psychosis and why is it central in the Lindsay Clancy trial? Warning: This story contains distressing details and discussion of attempted suicide A month before Lindsay Clancy killed her three children, she went to her mother and then-husband and told them she had "thoughts of harming the children". Clancy's mother Paula Musgrove testified this week that during that time Lindsay would say: "'This isn't me, I've never been like this before.' And I would agree, because she wasn't." Clancy is not disputing that she carried out the killings, but has pleaded not guilty to murder charges. Her defence argues that Clancy was suffering from postpartum psychosis when she took her children's lives. Her symptoms included hallucinations and delusions that began after the birth of her third child. "She was unable to conform her behaviour to the rule of law and she had no appreciation for the wrongfulness of her act," Paul Zeizel, a clinical and forensic psychologist, said on the stand on Wednesday. Prosecutors, meanwhile, alleged she made a calculated decision to intentionally kill her children - Cora, five, Dawson, three, and Callan, who was eight months. With postpartum psychosis, a rare condition that is considered a medical emergency, patients can experience mania, depression or a mixture of both. They also endure psychotic symptoms, such as hearing voices that aren't there. In uncommon, severe cases, they may harm or kill themselves or other people. It is among the most serious illnesses a woman can experience after giving birth, experts told the BBC, but it remains unclassified in medicine's encyclopaedia of psychiatry. The illness is gaining more attention as Clancy's trial approaches the one-month mark, and has opened up a dialogue about the mental health complications that women can experience after giving birth. Postpartum psychosis often presents with mood symptoms such as irritability, mood swings, insomnia and what medical professionals would call a delirium-like state, Susan Hatters-Friedman, forensic psychiatry professor at Case Western Reserve University, told the BBC. "Psychosis in general as a term means that the person's out of touch with reality, and that often includes hallucinations, hearing things, seeing things that aren't there, delusions, which are fixed false beliefs that are not consistent with your culture," Hatters-Friedman said. Meghan Cliffel was eight months postpartum from the birth of her second daughter when she began hallucinating. It was a Friday in 2015 and she had just finished her workday in New York City. She became convinced that people were following her, she thought she was being recruited for a cult, and she thought the world - including her husband - was out to get her and her two daughters. Some 24 hours later, she was handcuffed to a gurney and taken to a psychiatric hospital. She would go on to spend the next 12 days there receiving treatment for postpartum psychosis. Psychiatric symptoms, like the ones Cliffel experienced, can appear rapidly, Hatters-Friedman said. That is why it needs to be treated as a medical emergency, experts say. A person can be fine and then suddenly lose touch with reality. On the day Clancy killed her children, she played with them outside building a snowman, her former husband, Patrick Clancy, said. "She was having one of her best days," he told the court during the trial. Clancy had previously told her then-husband she was having thoughts of suicide or harming the children, but on that day everything seemed better, he testified. When evening came that January 2023, he went out to grab dinner for the family of five. When he returned, he found his children dead and Clancy injured from a suicide attempt. That contrast demonstrates the light-switch - or waxing and waning effect - that can be postpartum psychosis, experts told the BBC. "A woman can appear fine one minute and be really ill a little bit later," said Jennifer Payne, a reproducti