'Catastrophic' hotel mix-up at the heart of Australia's mushroom murder appeal

'Catastrophic' hotel mix-up at the heart of Australia's mushroom murder appeal Australia's mushroom murderer Erin Patterson attended a hearing via video link from prison on Wednesday as her lawyers argued her conviction was undermined by a "catastrophic" mix-up. They say the trial had been compromised as the jury were placed in the same hotel as some prosecutors and a key witness. Patterson is serving a life sentence after killing three of her relatives and trying to kill another by serving them a beef Wellington containing death cap mushrooms at her Victoria home in 2023. She has always maintained it was an accident. Her lawyers also argued some evidence in the trial was too speculative and that evidence crucial to their own case was wrongfully excluded. The BBC's Australia Correspondent, Katy Watson, talks through what happened in court. More on this story: Mushroom murderer trial undermined by 'catastrophic' hotel mix-up, appeal court told 'Catastrophic' hotel mix-up at the heart of Australia's mushroom murder appeal. Video, 00:01:12 'Catastrophic' hotel mix-up at the heart of Australia's mushroom murder appeal Up Next. Australia's mushroom murder case… in under two minutes. Video, 00:01:49 Australia's mushroom murder case… in under two minutes What it was like inside court as mushroom murderer was jailed for life. Video, 00:01:33 What it was like inside court as mushroom murderer was jailed for life 'I loved them' - Police interview Australian mushroom murderer. Video, 00:01:56 'I loved them' - Police interview Australian mushroom murderer Multiple deadly Israeli strikes in Gaza in under 24 hours. Video, 00:01:11 Multiple deadly Israeli strikes in Gaza in under 24 hours Why is Ukraine's ex-defence minister calling for wartime elections? Video, 00:01:02 Why is Ukraine's ex-defence minister calling for wartime elections? 'Incredible': SpaceX rocket spotted off Christmas Island coast. Video, 00:01:39 'Incredible': SpaceX rocket spotted off Christmas Island coast Watch: Why has Russia threatened the UK and what happens next? Video, 00:01:05 Watch: Why has Russia threatened the UK and what happens next? Watch: What we learned from opening statements in Tupac murder trial. Video, 00:01:54 Watch: What we learned from opening statements in Tupac murder trial Watch: Why has Trump shifted on North Korea? Video, 00:01:45 Watch: Why has Trump shifted on North Korea? 'I want my brother back' - Tupac’s brother tells BBC murder trial won’t bring justice. Video, 00:01:42 'I want my brother back' - Tupac’s brother tells BBC murder trial won’t bring justice BBC visits smouldering Kyiv market after Russian strikes. Video, 00:01:00 BBC visits smouldering Kyiv market after Russian strikes Why is Australia's mushroom killer back in court this week? Video, 00:01:16 Why is Australia's mushroom killer back in court this week? Moment family rescued after 16 hours floating on jet ski off Thailand. Video, 00:00:29 Moment family rescued after 16 hours floating on jet ski off Thailand Why is Selena Gomez being sued? Video, 00:00:42 Why is Selena Gomez being sued? Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.