Christian metal band Demon Hunter sue Netflix over KPop Demon Hunters

Christian metal band Demon Hunter sue Netflix over KPop Demon Hunters Ryan Clark of Demon Hunter on stage at the Louder Than Life Music Festival in 2019 Christian metal band Demon Hunter are suing Netflix in a trademark lawsuit over the streamer's hit film Kpop Demon Hunters. The US group, who have been releasing music and touring for 25 years, said Netflix's plan for a global concert tour, along with the movie and merchandise, means there is "almost complete overlap" with their offerings. Filed on Tuesday by the band's company Hyde Lane, the complaint claims Netflix Studios and live promoter AEG Presents have caused "substantial confusion" among consumers. They included email evidence from someone who allegedly spent $500 on tickets for a Demon Hunter concert in New York, thinking it was a child-friendly Kpop show for their small children. Kpop Demon Hunters is Netflix's most-watched original title to date Other examples cited include a television producer who reportedly contacted the band's management thinking they were related to Kpop Demon Hunters, and social media posts incorrectly tagging Demon Hunter when discussing the film. The five-piece Seattle band, who play "aggressive yet emotionally stirring heavy metal" according to AllMusic , external , released their 12th album in September 2025 and have 350,000 monthly listeners on Spotify. By comparison, the KPop Demon Hunters cast have 27 million monthly listeners on the streaming platform. The legal complaint said: "The brand that Hyde Lane has carefully built over the course of the past quarter century now faces an existential crisis, thereby necessitating the filing of this action and the granting of the requested relief from this Court." The metal band have asked the court to stop Netflix using the KPop Demon Hunters name for recorded music, live shows and merchandise, and to award unspecified damages. The band's company registered "Demon Hunter" as a trademark for recorded music and merchandise in 2022, and have applied for a trademark in relation to live music. Netflix has registered "Kpop Demon Hunters" as a trademark for a number of merchandise uses, with other applications pending. What started as a 2025 animated film following K-pop girl group Huntr/X, Kpop Demon Hunters has grown into a worldwide phenomenon, with music releases and extensive merchandise, with a global live tour expected to begin in 2027. It is the most-watched original title in Netflix history and won best animated film and best original song for Golden at the 2026 Golden Globes and Oscars. A sequel to Kpop Demon Hunters is also in the works, while Netflix is reportedly considering , external other follow-up projects such as a television series and stage musical. The BBC has contacted Demon Hunter, Netflix and AEG Presents for comment. KPop Demon Hunters to return as Netflix announces sequel Kpop Demon Hunters becomes Netflix's most viewed film ever KPop Demon Hunters 2: 'We're not trying to be mysterious!' Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's co