National Television Awards pick first all-female shortlist for drama acting award

National Television Awards pick first all-female shortlist for drama acting award (Left to right) Ella Bruccoleri, Judy Parfitt, Vicky McClure, Sheridan Smith and Ruth Jones National Television Awards voters have selected an all-female shortlist in the best drama performance category for the first time. The five nominees include previous winner Sheridan Smith, who played campaigner Ann Ming in ITV true crime drama I Fought The Law, and Gavin & Stacey's Ruth Jones for her role in Netflix thriller Run Away. Vicky McClure gets the nod as Trigger Point's Lana Washington, while Ella Bruccoleri is shortlisted for alternative period drama The Other Bennet Sister, and Judy Parfitt is nominated for playing Sister Monica Joan in Call The Midwife. The nominees were chosen in a public vote from an initial longlist that also included stars like David Tennant, Gary Oldman, Idris Elba, James Norton and Tom Hiddleston. A second stage of voting is now open to pick the winners in the NTAs' 15 categories. Elsewhere on this year's shortlists, Stacey Solomon has scored a hat-trick of nominations including best TV presenter. That particular award was won last year by then-outgoing Match of the Day presenter Gary Lineker, breaking Ant and Dec's remarkable 23-year winning run . Solomon will go up against the Geordie duo for this year's gong as well as Sir David Attenborough in his 100th birthday year, Traitors and chat show host Claudia Winkleman and Alison Hammond. In the inaugural celebrity-led reality docuseries award, Solomon and her partner Joe Swash face competition from boxer Tyson Fury, Jeremy Clarkson and Emmerdale actor-turned-farmer Kelvin Fletcher, as well as funny fishermen Bob Mortimer and Paul Whitehouse. Mrs Brown's Boys – which this week officially cancelled its festive specials due to creator and star Brendan O'Carroll's broken jaw - has a nomination for best comedy. Other nominated shows include Canadian breakout romance Heated Rivalry (for best new drama) - eligible as it was co-produced by Sky UK - and Winkleman and Tess Daly's final series of Strictly Come Dancing (for best talent show). The NTAs, which recognise the best in British TV over the past twelve months, first launched in 1995 and the winners will be voted for by the public between now and midday on 8 September - the day of the ceremony. Hosted again by comedian Joel Dommett, the event will take place at London's O2 arena and will be broadcast live on ITV1 and ITVX from 20:00 BST. Ella Bruccoleri - Mary Bennet, The Other Bennet Sister Judy Parfitt - Sister Monica Joan, Call the Midwife Sheridan Smith - Ann Ming, I Fought The Law Vicky McClure - Lana Washington, Trigger Point Gareth Pierce - Todd Grimshaw, Coronation Street Sue Devaney - Debbie Webster, Coronation Street The Great Celebrity Bake Off for Stand Up To Cancer Gary Lineker ends Ant and Dec's 23-year winning streak at TV awards Strictly wins TV award after months of allegations Post Office victim criticises government at TV awards Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couc