Reading festival granted music extension despite noise concerns

Reading festival granted music extension despite noise concerns More than 100,000 revellers attend Reading Festival each year Reading Festival has been given permission for music on its main stage for a fourth day despite residents' objections. More than 100,000 people typically attend the August bank holiday weekend event and organisers Festival Republic will be able to use the main stage on Thursdays between 17:00 and 23:30 BST from 2027. Associations representing hundreds of residents opposed the change over potential disruption and increased noise affecting those living nearby. Managing director Mevin Benn told Reading Borough Council's licensing committee that it wanted to "give people better value for money". Traditionally Wednesdays and Thursdays have been seen as warm-up days, on which people with camping tickets can arrive before the festival starts on Friday. Charli XCX, rapper Dave and Chase & Status will headline the festival - and its sister event in Leeds - later this month. Elisa Miles, chair of the Warren & District Residents Association (WADRA), said it is "not opposed" to the festival in general and that it has "worked constructively" with Festival Republic. "Through this long-standing partnership, we have helped them better understand the impact the festival has on nearby residents and have worked together to develop practical solutions," she said. But she said music being performed on Thursdays would disrupt residents' sleep on a working night. "Loud amplified music late into the evening will disrupt sleep for those who have no choice but to remain at home," she added. Benn said: "We wanted to add the Thursday in order to give people better value for money for the ticket, for people with weekend tickets, but also to invite people to come on the Thursday evening for whatever the Thursday performance will be." Managing director of Festival Republic Melvin Benn said the addition night would offer better "value for money" Speaking before the decision was made on Tuesday evening, Malcolm Pemble, from the Caversham and District Residents Association (CADRA), said residents could be afflicted by the "unfair" noise. In its application, Festival Republic said an assessment had found that live music on Thursdays would not "adversely impact" those nearby. It also said providing live music on Thursdays would "provide a focus for ticket holders (especially those under 18) to be entertained throughout the evening, rather than being left to congregate in the campsites or less supervised areas." The committee also heard that festival-goers will have to pay an extra £1 each for a ticket from next year with the money going to help support people and businesses in Reading. Benn said: "This is a long -term commitment which we hope will bring in in excess of £100,000 a year." Festival Republic says it will now start working alongside Reading Borough Council as well as local people and businesses to decide where the extra funds should go. Additional reporting by the Local Democracy Reporting Service. BBC Introducing stage axed from Reading Festival Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became