'I'm not sure who I am' - Bake Off winner in shock after bipolar diagnosis

'I'm not sure who I am' - Bake Off winner in shock after bipolar diagnosis Georgina Grasso became an advocate for the ADHD community during her time on the show A former winner of the Great British Bake Off has said "I'm not sure who I am right now" after being diagnosed with bipolar disorder. Georgina Grasso, from Carmarthenshire, spoke about having attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) during her time on the show, and said the reaction from the public had been "incredible". But a new diagnosis has revealed that she has bipolar 2 and autism instead of ADHD, which she said has "come as a shock". In an Instagram post, Grasso said she needed her fans "now more than ever" as she learns more about the mental health condition. Grasso spoke openly about living with ADHD on her way to becoming the first ever Welsh Bake Off champion. She said she "loved" her role as an advocate, but admitted it left her feeling "completely overwhelmed" . In an Instagram post published on Monday, Grasso said her doctor first mentioned that she could have been misdiagnosed last year, but she "thought there's no way". "I'm not sure who I am right now, and scared to be judged even more so," she added. Grasso said a lot of things "make sense" following her new diagnosis, which has given her a "bit of relief". But she said it had also left her feeling worried about being able to keep up with her workload. Georgina saya winning Great British Bake Off has changed her life The former nurse, who has since become a content creator, said the consistency required when filming had made her question if she "can actually keep doing this". "I really want to keep going, support my family as much as I can," she said. Grasso said she started new medication that she hopes will allow her to be "stable" while working. She also called for any of her followers with experience with bipolar to share their advice, and thanked them for their support. "Thank you for being here! I need you now more than ever," she added. According to the NHS , external , bipolar disorder is a mental health condition where you have extreme mood changes. This can vary from high moods, for example, feeling very happy, excited or energetic, to low moods, such as feeling sad, tired or hopeless. These moods usually last a few days or weeks at a time. There are different types of bipolar , external and those with type two experience severe depression and mild manic episodes - known as hypomania - that last for a shorter period of time. People with bipolar disorder will usually have times where their mood is stable and they do not have any symptoms, the NHS said. This can last for weeks, months or years. If a GP thinks you may have bipolar disorder, they will refer you to a mental health specialist. They will ask you about things like your moods, behaviour, health and family history. Bipolar disorder can take time to diagnose because it affects everyone differently and the symptoms are similar to other mental health conditions. While it cannot be cured, there are treatments that can help manage it. The charity Bipolar UK , external said because the two conditions have overlapping traits it is not uncommon for them to be misdiagnosed. But getting the wrong diagnosis could mean someone is not receiving the right treatment, support or knowledge they need to manage the symptoms, it said. Grasso said the "turning point" for her was being truthful with her psychiatrist about her history and symptoms. You can find more information on bipolar disorder , external and ADHD , external on the NHS website. If you've been affected by the issues in this story, help and support is available via BBC Action Line. Gillian Anderson felt 'betrayed' by The Salt Path allegations after appearing in adaptation From jumpers to slug pellets - how British wool is back in demand 200-year-old bridge hidden for a century seen again after drought Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - bu