Parents pushed to breaking point by Child Maintenance Service, BBC told

Parents pushed to breaking point by Child Maintenance Service, BBC told 'I used food banks while my ex owed thousands in child maintenance' Parents have told BBC Panorama that the agency tasked with helping to secure financial support for children after separation or divorce is driving them to breaking point. Mothers described battling with the Child Maintenance Service (CMS) to get their ex-partners to pay up, while fathers said they have been caused anxiety and stress by administrative mistakes. One mother said she turned to food banks after the CMS failed to make her ex-partner pay child maintenance, leaving arrears of almost £10,000. Another said she had been forced to skip meals after her abusive ex-partner stopped paying. We have also spoken to a father who said years of disagreements with the CMS have pushed him to the brink, including after it added an extra child to his account who was not his. The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP), which runs the CMS, said "in the vast majority of cases" it successfully arranges "vital payments for children". It said it takes "very seriously the small number of cases where things go wrong". Child Maintenance: Parents under Pressure BBC Panorama meets parents who receive maintenance and those who pay it, and asks whether the system is failing both them and their children. Watch on iPlayer now or on Monday 17 August at 20:00 on BBC One. About four million children in England, Scotland and Wales have parents who are separated. Parents must have a child maintenance arrangement if the child is under 16, or under 20 if they are in approved education or training. Both parents are responsible for the costs of raising their children, even if they do not see them. If there is a dispute over how these payments are provided, parents can turn to the CMS to help ensure a child's living costs, including bills, food and clothing, are paid. It uses a formula to work out how much a parent should pay, depending on a range of factors including their income. When Katy and her partner broke up more than three years ago, they could not agree on child maintenance payments for their two children. Like hundreds of thousands of others, she turned to the CMS for help. But she has told Panorama the service does not work. Her ex-partner is meant to pay more than £330 a month, but she said he is not paying, and had built up arrears of almost £10,000. Katy said the lack of financial support meant she had been forced to make tough choices. "Last year, I was really struggling," she said. "I did go to food banks… there's been occasions where I've wanted the kids to be able to do more, more clubs, do stuff with their friends. I've had to say no, I feel terrible." Katy is owed more than £9,000 from her ex-partner The CMS is overseeing more than 800,000 cases in England, Scotland and Wales, involving more than a million children. Northern Ireland has a separate service. The CMS is in more demand than ever - the number of cases has risen by about 300,000 in the past five years. There were also more than 1,400 complaints in the first three months of this year, according to the DWP's most recent annual report. The CMS does not take into account both parents' financial situations. Instead it relies on the income of the paying parent. That's the parent who does not provide the majority of the care for the child and must pay the parent who does. If the paying parent does not pay their ex-partner directly after setting up an arrangement with the CMS, the service, through its Collect and Pay system, can take money from wages, bank accounts or benefits. At the end of March 2026, there were about 350,000 Collect and Pay cases - including those of paying parents who had chosen to pay ex-partners this way. In Collect and Pay cases, the CMS adds a fee of 20% to the amount owed by the paying parent. It also charges the receiving parent 4% of the money they are entitled to. The CMS has the power to try to recover arrears if parents fall behind with payments. It can also go to court to recognise a debt