Jason Arday death 'tragedy on so many levels' says PM

Jason Arday death 'tragedy on so many levels' says PM Death of Jason Arday 'a tragedy on so many levels', says PM Andy Burnham has described the death of former Cambridge professor Jason Arday as "a tragedy on so many levels", as he called for a "moment for reflection". Arday was found dead at an address in Battersea, south London, on Friday afternoon. "It's not a moment for any rushing to judgement. It's a moment for reflection, I would say, reflecting on how things came to this," the prime minister told broadcasters during a visit to Cornwall. In a statement issued by his publisher Simon & Schuster UK, Arday's family said they were "in shock to have lost this amazing father, partner, brother, uncle and son". They said a "campaign of misinformation" had been too much for him. Analysis: Jason Arday's death will send shockwaves through a divided academia Jason Arday, ex-Cambridge professor at centre of plagiarism row, found dead Arday, 41, resigned as a Cambridge professor of sociology of education last week after allegations of plagiarism and questions about some of his achievements. He had denied the claims. A friend told the BBC Arday had described feeling "destroyed" and had told him his authorisation to travel to the US had been revoked. Eamonn McCrystal, who became his friend at St Mary's University, Twickenham, tried to reassure him what he was going through would pass, but Arday replied "it does not feel like it will." McCrystal told the BBC "He was the nicest person. So kind and such a gentle soul. "We shared an office at university, when I set up the student radio station, and he used to speak on the station a lot." The University of Cambridge vice-chancellor Prof Deborah Prentice led the tributes, saying the faculty was "desperately saddened" to learn of his death. "Our heartfelt sympathies go to Jason Arday's family and friends at this incredibly difficult time," she added. Education Secretary Lucy Powell said she was "deeply shocked and saddened" and urged people to "remember there are real people with loved ones involved". Mayor of London Sir Sadiq Khan said Arday was subjected to unrelenting media scrutiny. He said he had faced "an unacceptable public hounding and campaign of abuse" and was the victim of "a pernicious public shaming". "His death was a tragedy, but once again it should be a wake up call for all of us," he posted on X. A donation page, set up by Windrush campaigner Sir Patrick Vernon, has raised more than £10,000 to help cover funeral costs for Arday's family. "Today should be about compassion, dignity and solidarity with a grieving family," Vernon wrote. "Jason's life was bigger than the controversy that surrounded his final weeks." A vigil will be held on Monday evening on the steps of the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square, held by the organisation Stand Up To Racism. The group's co-convenor, Weyman Bennett, said Arday's death "was the result of a racist witch hunt". Jason Arday was found dead in Battersea, south London, on Friday Jo Grady, general secretary of the University and College Union, said the "level of harassment he suffered and the racism he was subjected to has been sickening" and "must be investigated". Lord Paul Boateng, who became the UK's first black cabinet minister in 2002, told BBC Newsnight he was "horrified, shocked and deeply saddened". "Racism in academia is a fact of life and needs to be addressed," he added in a written statement. In a statement on Saturday, National Education Union general secretary Daniel Kebede said Arday had been subjected to "a public and brutal takedown that unleashed a tirade of racism". "The effect has been chilling. It tells black people and others from underrepresented backgrounds that entering prominent public positions will make you a target," he said. Prof Simon Baron-Cohen, director of the Autism Research Centre at the University of Cambridge, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme Arday had been "bombarded by every media outlet to paint him as a fraud". "He was an incredibly, kind and gentle a