'I worked really hard and it paid off': Elation, nerves and proud parents as students get results

'I worked really hard and it paid off': Elation, nerves and proud parents as students get results "I've worked really hard, I've tried and that's all I can do… and it's paid off", Emily, a student in Hartlepool said as she received her A-level results, admitting she "felt a bit sick" before finding out her grades. She was just one of hundreds of thousands of young people to receive their A-level, Btec and T-level results across England, Wales and Northern Ireland on Thursday after weeks of waiting. This year saw a record number of 18-year-olds accepted into university , with more than ever getting into their firm choice - although there are more of them in the population than in previous years. Nervous, elated and tired students flocked to schools across the UK on Thursday to find out their grades, with many telling the BBC how they did and their hopes for the future. Emily, who attended English Martyrs School and Sixth Form College, said she felt "sick" waking up on Thursday morning, but was happy with with her A*, A and B. She said she's now looking forward to starting a degree apprenticeship to become a solicitor, a route she picked for the experience "now it's harder to get a job". Top grades rise again as students get A-level, T-level and BTec results Anastasiia Sochka moved to Hartlepool from Ukraine with her mum, Victoria, in summer 2022 after Russia launched its full scale invasion. Anastasiia told the BBC she initially struggled with the language barrier but was "so happy" to tell her dad, who is fighting in the Ukrainian army, that she achieved an A* in Russian, an A in psychology and a B in sociology. "It was nice to be able to give him that good news because I wanted to make him happy. I miss him a lot," she added. Anastasiia is now heading to Newcastle University and hopes to become a social worker. "Lots of people are struggling in Ukraine now because of poverty due to the war, and I want to be able to help them," she said. "Seeing what's happened has influenced me and changed my life perspective. I hope that by the time I graduate, the war will be over." Anastasiia Sochka arrived in north-east England from Ukraine in 2022 For some, the stress of the big day means all they can think about is finally getting some rest. Civ, who is also heading to Newcastle University after getting two A*s and an A, said he plans to celebrate by heading back home and having a "lie-in". He told the BBC he "might go out" later after getting some much needed post-results day sleep. "I'll do medicine and hopefully become a doctor," says Civ - a career path he decided on after speaking to his careers adviser in Year 11 Michel's dad was overjoyed to discover his son earned an A*, A, A to book a place to study political economy at King's College London, beaming as he declared his son would be the "next prime minister". "I'm so proud of him, so proud of everyone, his mates, it's amazing," he said before getting the crowd of students to cheer for his son. 'My son the next PM!' - When you take dad to collect results In Canterbury, Kent, triplets Scarlett, Grace and Tabby Taylor said they were ecstatic for themselves and each other after getting into their first choice universities. "It's proven to me I can do university and I will be able to succeed," Tabby said, who will be going to Bath Spa University. "I can do what I want to do and get where I want to be," Scarlett added. With the three of them heading to different parts of England to study, they are all looking forward to visiting each other in the months and years to come. Scarlett added: "We will be able to see other places, it's so cool." Triplets Scarlett, Tabby and Grace Taylor got into their first choices - with Scarlett off to Oxford to study geography, Tabby to pursue dance at Bath Spa, and Grace doing history and politics at Sussex Some students, like 18-year-old on-call firefighter Bobi Jones, haven't had the time to worry about results day. Bobi became one of the youngest crew members for the Mid and West Wales Fire and Rescue Service when he joined up last autumn while s