Top grades rise again as students get A-level, T-level and BTec results

Top grades rise again as students get A-level, T-level and BTec results Hundreds of thousands of students in England, Wales and Northern Ireland have opened their A-level, T-level and BTec results on Thursday morning. The percentage of top A-level grades edged up again, and a record number of students found out they had secured a place at university. The cost of going to university has been in the spotlight this year, with mounting pressure on the government to reform student loan repayments, and there has been a renewed focus on technical education under Prime Minister Andy Burnham. But the chief executive of Universities UK, which represents more than 140 vice-chancellors, urged students to not "let politicians make your decision for you". The percentage of A* and A grades at A-level increased to 28.5% across England, Wales and Northern Ireland this year, up from 28.3% last year. About 40% of 18-year-olds in England receive A-levels every summer. Around 250,000 grades for vocational and technical qualifications were also released to students in England. These include BTec National, Cambridge Technical, Cambridge Advanced National and T-level results. Almost 20,000 students completed a T-level in 2026, with a pass rate of over 90%. Launched in 2020, T-levels are two-year technical courses that are taken after GCSEs. They focus more on practical subjects than academic ones, but are an equivalent qualification to three A-levels. AS-levels, which will count towards students' final A-level results next summer in Wales and Northern Ireland, have also been released. This year, the pass rate for National 5, Higher and Advanced Higher exams in Scotland rose across the board . Around 41% of UK 18-year-olds had applied to university by the end of June this year. That is a similar proportion to last year, despite increased scrutiny of the long-term cost of university and a renewed focus on technical education. Vivienne Stern, chief executive of Universities UK, said she was concerned that "people talking [university] down" could "put off" potential students from the least-advantaged backgrounds. She urged students to "make the right decision for you", adding: "Don't let politicians make your decision for you." Jo Saxton, chief executive of Ucas, said on Tuesday that she found "kicking higher education incredibly frustrating". "It's right that the prime minister and secretary of state [in England] are committed to parity [between academic and technical education] but I still think that there are lots and lots and lots of young people the best place for whom would be in a university," she said. Average student in England leaves university with £47,700 debt - is a degree worth it? How student loans work for tuition fees and living costs What is an apprenticeship and how much is the pay? Their comments follow criticism of the student loan repayment system this year - especially Plan 2 loans, which used to be issued in England and are still issued in Wales. They also come after Burnham announced that pupils in England will be able to study technical subjects in addition to core academic learning from Year 10. His predecessor, Sir Keir Starmer, announced that new V-level qualifications would be an additional vocational option for students from 2027. Meanwhile, universities continue to struggle with their finances after a long-term freeze in domestic tuition fees and a fall in international student numbers. Undergraduate tuition fees in England and Wales are rising for a second year running for students starting university in September, reaching £9,790 a year. But four in ten universities , external in England are still expected to report a deficit for the 2025-26 financial year. What are T-levels and what are the grades worth? First V-level subjects announced with aim to 'prepare for future jobs' Most students getting their grades this year were in Year 7 and Year 8 in 2020 and 2021, during the Covid pandemic. Both years saw spikes in pass rates at GCSE and top grades at A-level, after exams were cancelled and re