How do I apply for an apprenticeship and what will I get paid?

How do I apply for an apprenticeship and what will I get paid? Apprenticeships offer a route into work and further qualifications for people who want to learn while earning. But what is an apprenticeship, how much do apprentices get paid and what careers can they lead to? An apprenticeship combines paid work with study towards a recognised qualification. Apprentices usually spend most of their time working and part of their time completing training with an employer, college, university or online provider. People often choose apprenticeships because they know the career they want to pursue, or because they want to gain new skills without studying full-time. Any employer can hire apprentices. They are responsible for ensuring apprentices work with experienced staff and receive time away from their job to complete their studying. Apprenticeships are available across a wide range of industries, including business, engineering, construction, healthcare, digital, hospitality and creative sectors. You get paid for the time you spend working. If you are under 19, or if you are 19 or older but in the first year of your apprenticeship, you will be paid at least the apprentice rate , external of £8 per hour. Those over 19 - or who have already completed their first year - are entitled to the appropriate minimum wage for their age: These rates apply across the UK but employers can choose to pay more than the legal minimum. Some apprenticeships can also lead to higher salaries after completion. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the different levels of apprenticeship are: Higher (Levels 4, 5, 6 and 7 - foundation degree or above) Degree (Levels 6 and 7 - bachelor's or master's degree) Foundation (mostly SCQF Level 6 - Highers standard) Modern (mostly SCQF Levels 6 and 7 - Highers or Advanced Highers standard) Graduate (SCQF Levels 9, 10 and 11 - undergraduate or master's degree standard) Advanced apprenticeships - A-level standard - are the most popular, and the number of people doing higher apprenticeships has been rising. Hundreds of thousands of people are on apprenticeships in England each year. Apprenticeships are available for school leavers, young people and adults looking to develop new skills or change careers. The government has introduced a number of measures aimed at increasing apprenticeship opportunities and helping more young people access training. There have also been concerns about the decline in the number of young people starting apprenticeships in recent years, as well as whether opportunities are equally accessible to people from different backgrounds. If you know where you want to work, you can head straight to the employer's website and apply. You can search for apprenticeship opportunities through different official websites in England , external , Scotland , external , Wales , external or Northern Ireland , external . The Universities and Colleges Admissions Service (Ucas) website , external also lets you search for apprenticeship vacancies. You will be interviewed for the apprenticeship before you start, and will need to pass an assessment showing what you have learned before you can finish. Think hard about what the apprenticeship offers. Can you picture yourself in a job in the industry? Will the qualification help you in the career? What opportunities exist at the organisation itself? Make sure you understand what training you will receive, how much you will get paid, and how long the placement will last. You can also read reviews of apprenticeships on sites such as RateMyApprenticeship.co.uk. , external Some apprentices do not complete their training. Reasons for leaving early can include personal circumstances, changing career plans, problems with the quality of training or not receiving enough time to study. Ucas has previously warned that young people were being put off by a range of barriers, including: having to apply for apprenticeships individually The government has introduced changes to apprenticeship rules in England, including reforms to course requiremen