What are T-levels and what are the grades worth?

What are T-levels and what are the grades worth? As GCSE students prepare to receive their exam results, many will be considering a T-level as their next step. But what are T-levels, what courses are available and how are they marked? T-levels are vocational qualifications aimed at 16-to-19-year-olds in England , external , which focus more on practical subjects than academic ones. Introduced in 2020, the qualification includes a mixture of classroom learning and on-the-job experience. A work placement of at least 315 hours - or nine weeks - makes up about 20% of the course. T-levels are designed to cater for students who want an alternative to A-levels but do not wish to take an apprenticeship , which typically requires as much as 80% of a student's time to be spent with an employer. Final marks are based on a combination of exams, coursework and completion of the industry placement. Students get one of four grades, ranging from a pass to a distinction*. Their certificate shows their overall grade and lists their experiences on the course. A distinction* is worth 168 Ucas points - the same as three A*s at A-level - and a merit is equivalent to three Bs at A-level. For those wanting to go on to higher education, the DfE says T-levels are accepted as an entry qualification by more than 150 UK universities and colleges , external . There are currently more than 20 T-Level subjects to choose from , external , including accounting, craft and design, engineering and media production. Students will no longer be able to start a T-level in onsite construction. The DfE said this was due to low numbers of students taking it, adding that , external "the needs of learners and the economy are best met through apprenticeships and other classroom provision." There have been delays to some courses becoming available, such as catering. Some proposed T-levels have been scrapped all together, including hairdressing. Student says T-Levels were 'much better way to study' Colleges face disruption over T-level delays The number of students taking T-levels has increased each year since they were introduced. However, many T-level students do not complete their course. Retention rates for most A-levels and other equivalent qualifications are consistently above 90%. In comparison, 77% of students who started a T-level in 2024 finished the two-year programme in 2026. There have also been issues raised over the quality of teaching and assessments. In July 2024, the exams watchdog Ofqual fined the NCFE exam board £300,000 over "major failings" with papers sat by 1,200 health and science T-level students in 2022. When T-levels were introduced by the previous Conservative government in 2020, there were more than 12,000 vocational qualifications, offered by more than 150 awarding bodies. T-levels were designed to streamline this landscape, and make post-16 options less confusing for students and employers. As part of the introduction of T-levels, funding was set to be withdrawn for some other vocational qualifications, like BTecs, which were deemed to "overlap" with the new T-level programmes. Some vocational qualifications that overlapped with T-levels have had funding withdrawn, while others continue to be funded following a government review. The DfE said the qualifications would "be able to coexist" while work was done to make improvements, but that ultimately T-levels would become "the large technical qualification of choice". Other vocational courses available in the UK include: NVQs (available in England, Wales and Northern Ireland) Scottish Vocational Qualifications (SVQs). Have you taken a T-level? Tell us about your experiences. Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk , external . Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: Please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or