IVF staff accused of misleading UK parents about sperm and egg donors in northern Cyprus

IVF staff accused of misleading UK parents about sperm and egg donors in northern Cyprus Dr Sevket Alpturk (l), Dr Firdevs Uguz Tip (c), and patient co-ordinator Julie Hodson (r) worked at Dogus IVF Centre At least 30 children, most of them British, are feared to have been conceived by IVF treatment in northern Cyprus using the wrong sperm or egg donors. In each case, the parents suspect they did not get the donors they had selected. The figure is one of several new findings in a BBC investigation that, earlier this year , uncovered the first seven cases. All the parents say they carefully selected anonymous donors based on information such as their medical history, appearance, personality, education and hobbies. However, they have concerns the requested sperm and egg donors may not have been used in their fertility treatments. Half of the 30 children were born from procedures at one clinic, Dogus IVF Centre. "It's absolutely scandalous," said one of the mothers, Rachel, who recently learned that she received the wrong sperm donor from the clinic. Three people - Dr Firdevs Uguz Tip, Dr Sevket Alpturk, and a patient co-ordinator Julie Hodson - were involved in the care of many of these patients at Dogus. Parents suspect these members of staff may have misled them. Firdevs denies any wrongdoing and neither Alpturk or Hodson have responded to our questions. The BBC has also now learnt that the world's largest sperm bank, Cryos International, has blacklisted Dogus clinic since 2016. Have you been affected by the issues raised in this story? Contact the BBC at: fertilityinvestigation@bbc.co.uk In northern Cyprus - a territory where European Union laws do not apply and which is only legally recognised by Turkey - clinics are loosely regulated and promise patients low prices, high success rates and a wide choice of sperm and egg donors. The Turkish-occupied territory is one of the most popular destinations for British people seeking fertility treatment abroad. We first revealed the emerging scandal in March where a small group of parents appeared to have been misled about donors. Responding to the allegations, the territory's Ministry of Health said it had launched an official investigation. However, it has not responded to our repeated requests for more information. Since then, more parents have contacted us and their stories have concerning similarities. The majority said the clinics they had used had promised them screened, healthy donors from Western Europe, but that they had become suspicious after their children were born. Eleven of the 30 children have now taken commercial DNA tests which show they have inherited genetic ancestry from Turkey or surrounding countries. This suggests their parents' requested donors were not used. The majority of the children who have done DNA tests were conceived through IVF between 2012 and 2024 at Dogus clinic. Families have been left with questions about who their children's real donors are and their medical histories. "These reports are deeply troubling," said Laura Bridgens, founder of the charity Donor Conceived UK. "It's a fundamental human right for a donor-conceived person to know the truth about their origins." In the past few days, the UK's Foreign Office has also updated its travel advice warning that fertility treatment in northern Cyprus "carries risks" due to a lack of regulation and it encourages those seeking IVF in the territory to conduct thorough research beforehand. Rachel says she spent years questioning whether she had been given the wrong sperm donor during her treatment at Dogus IVF Centre. After reading our first article, she and her donor-conceived son Jonah, 13, decided to do DNA tests and the results indicated her fears were justified. "I used to think the clinic had made a one-off mistake," she said. But now, after we told her about more families coming forward, she said "it feels like this is something much bigger and more deceitful". Rachel chose Dogus in 2012 because of a "helpful and friendly" patient co-ordinator called Julie Hodson, whose role was 