Lucy Davis urges women to check their breasts for cancer - here's how

Lucy Davis urges women to check their breasts for cancer - here's how Signs of breast cancer are not always a lump in the traditional sense, so what should you look for? Actress Lucy Davis, who played Dawn Tinsley in the original UK version of the popular TV series The Office, has revealed she has incurable breast cancer . On Instagram , external , the 53-year-old said it had spread to her bones and it was too late for chemo. She added: "The initial lump that I felt, wasn't a 'lump' as such; rather a kind of hard spot. Really tiny." The NHS says to check your breasts , external or chest about once a month. That helps you learn what looks and feels normal for you, making it easier to notice any abnormal changes. Breasts can naturally look and feel a bit different at different phases of your menstrual cycle, and change a bit as you age. a lump or swelling in your breast, chest or armpit a change in the skin of your breast, such as dimpling (it may look like orange peel) or redness, which may be harder to see on black or brown skin a change in size or shape of one or both breasts, or either side of your chest – it's common for breasts to be different sizes, but check for any changes that are not normal for you nipple discharge (if you're not pregnant or breastfeeding), which may have blood in it a change in the shape or look of your nipple, such as it turning inwards (inverted nipple) or a rash appearing on it (it may look like eczema) Look at your breasts or chest in a mirror to look for any changes. Start with your arms by your sides and then raise them up. Feel around each breast or side of your chest in a circular motion all the way up to your collarbone and under each armpit. Use a mix of light and firmer pressure. Do not press so hard it hurts. you have a lump or swelling in your breast, chest or armpit you have any changes in your breasts, chest or nipples that are not normal for you you have pain in your breast or armpit that does not go away The Office actress Lucy Davis says she has 'incurable' cancer Breast cancer checks missing most women under 50 who are at risk, says study Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.