What's driving men to get penis fillers, despite the risks?

What's driving men to get penis fillers, despite the risks? Jason didn't want a "Coke can" – that's the nickname for a penis that has been enlarged with so much filler it resembles a stubby drink can. "Some people go really overboard," Jason tells me when we meet in Manchester. His procedure increased the girth of his penis by 16% - an amount he, and his partner, are really happy with. He says it has given him a "self-confidence boost". "Everything still functions" as normal, Jason explains - just with "that extra little bit of width". It is not clear how many men like Jason are having penis fillers. And you can't walk down the street and get a sense of it in the way you can visibly see the popularity of lip fillers. There is little regulation and there are no official records as anybody can start offering the procedure. Penis fillers even became the topic of a bizarre conspiracy theory at the last Winter Olympics. Male ski jumpers were rumoured to be using fillers to increase the surface area of their suits so they could jump further. However, some men have ended up in A&E with a penis turning black and skin "sloughing off" after a botched procedure. And the British Association of Urological Surgeons has issued warnings to men having these procedures. So why are men doing it and what are the risks? James Gallagher visits a private clinic to find out about about the procedure, meets a man who has had it done, and chats to a surgeon who says he is dealing with the consequences when it goes wrong. Jason talked to us frankly, but anonymously, about his decision to have fillers. He was happy with the length of his penis but wanted a "bit more symmetry" and more girth to "get that nice, balanced look". "If you feel like it's a bit lacking," Jason says, "then, why not?" He spent a year weighing up options and ruled out having a surgical procedure. He chose a type of filler - hyaluronic acid - that is temporary so he knew that even if he hated the look it would "eventually just dissolve". Jason says he wasn't motivated by swaggering alpha masculinity - "I don't subscribe to 'how big your dick is, is how big of a man you are'". Rather, he says expectations of male beauty have shifted. "It's not just women that need to keep up, men need to keep up as well. "It's literally just society changing. I think the way the media portrays everything has a massive impact on everyday life now," he says. "It's like you can't actually go anywhere without seeing some picture-perfect somebody." Trawl the websites of clinics offering penis enlargement - which ask questions like "are you embarrassed by the size of your penis?" - and you can see how some tap into this. There are a variety of penis-enhancement options. There are surgical and non-surgical techniques and different materials that can be injected into the penis. Most common by far is injecting the gel-like substance hyaluronic acid - the same key ingredient used in lip fillers. Hyaluronic acid is a naturally occurring sugar molecule in the body and is known as a "moisture magnet" as it grabs hold of water. Dr Javed Hussain performs a range of cosmetic procedures, including penis fillers Dr Javed Hussain has been offering penis fillers for more than a year at his clinic in Prestwich, Greater Manchester. Hussain trained as a doctor before moving into cosmetic procedures, but penis fillers do not legally require any medical training to perform. He says demand is increasing. He's treated men of all ages - some in their mid-20s, while his oldest client is aged 72. The process starts with consultations on the patient's health, reasons for wanting to have the procedure, expectations about the results, and a discussion about the risks. On the day of the event itself, a penis is injected with hyaluronic acid three times - on the top and on either side. The hyaluronic acid filler is delivered through a cannula that enters at the base and travels along the length of the shaft. The equipment needed, including cannulas and syringe, to perform a penis filler proced