Starting uni? What to know about the free NHS meningitis B jab in England

Starting uni? What to know about the free NHS meningitis B jab in England A million young people are being offered a free meningitis B vaccine. It comes after concerns over the UK's largest and fastest growing outbreak that happened in Kent earlier this year. Nearly 90,000 doses of the vaccine have already been given, with 135,000 more booked in for the coming weeks. So who needs the vaccine, what's in it and where can you get it for free? The vaccine offers protection against a dangerous strain of meningitis called meningitis B (MenB) that caused the outbreak in Kent. The vaccine does not contain any live bacteria and cannot cause meningitis. It is common to get some swelling, redness or tenderness where you have the injection. You may also get a mild fever, nausea, headache or muscle aches but these symptoms should disappear after one or two days. Bookings can be made at high street pharmacies across England. Seventeen and 18-year-olds can book via the NHS National Booking Service , external if they are already registered with a GP , external . Other students under the age of 25 who are heading to a residential college or university this autumn for the first time can also contact a participating pharmacy. You can get a walk-in MenB vaccine at a pharmacy if you were born on or after 21 July 2001, and for the first time this autumn you are: starting at a further education college as a residential student International students and students from elsewhere in the UK (Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man) who will be studying in England are also eligible, as well as those who are travelling abroad to study. You do not need to be registered with a GP surgery to use the walk-in service. Find a participating pharmacy here , external . The vaccine, given as two doses and at least 28 days apart, is being offered to 17 and 18-year-olds in sixth form and students under the age of 25 who are heading to a residential college or university this autumn for the first time. Both doses are needed for the fullest protection. A million young people are expected to be eligible for the vaccine in England, including: people born between 1 September 2007 and 31 August 2008 people born on or after 21 July 2001 and starting university for the first time this autumn people born on or after 21 July 2001 who are starting at residential further education colleges for the first time this autumn The meningitis outbreak that happened in Kent in March has been described as unprecedented and explosive. Within weeks, in Kent, there were 29 confirmed or suspected cases and two deaths. That's why the new, one-off campaign is being launched - to help protect those at greatest risk and hopefully prevent something like this from happening again. Students in their first year of university have a risk that is about seven times higher than that of young people of a similar age who do not go to university, says NHS England. Meningitis infections can be spread through close contact - for example through kissing, sharing vapes and drinks or living in close quarters with a person with the bug. UK health officials say the risk to 18-year-olds or those entering university or a residential college for the first time is higher because of increased mixing of social groups and shared accommodation. MenB infection can cause serious, life-threatening problems including inflammation of the lining of the brain (meningitis) and blood poisoning (sepsis). It can lead to life-changing disabilities such as amputations, hearing loss and brain damage, and in some cases can be fatal. The MenB vaccine was added to the UK NHS childhood immunisation programme for babies born on or after 1 July 2015. All babies are now offered it. But it means teenagers and young adults over the age of 11 have not received this jab. Young babies are vaccinated because they are more likely to get invasive infections more often than other age groups, and their bodies are less likely to be able to fight them off. However, research suggests the MenB vac