National Trust expands park by 32 hectares

National Trust expands park by 32 hectares The opening of the new Saltram area is "a landmark moment", the trust says Former agricultural land has been turned into additional public park space for people in Plymouth, the National Trust has said. The 32 hectares (79 acres) of green space has "significantly" increased the size of the trust's land in Saltram and included a new 2.5km (1.5 mile) multi-use trail suitable for all users funded by Sport England through the National Lottery and the Trust, it said. It added a series of rest stops had also been installed along the trail, offering "stunning views across Plymouth" and linking with Saltram's existing paths including The Dell. National Trust Saltram general manager Jez McDermott said the opening was "a landmark moment" for Plymouth and Saltram. He said: "This investment in access, wellbeing and nature means more people can enjoy everything Saltram has to offer. "Whether you're walking, wheeling, cycling, spending time with family or simply taking a moment to enjoy the views, we hope Saltram East becomes a place that people return to for generations to come." The trust said investments had been made to "boost the diversity" of nature and wildlife in the area and that it had planted new wildflower hay meadows across the site to create homes for wildlife. It said it also planned to create a community forest by planting up to 12,000 trees in the coming winter. A series of rest stops have been place along the trail offering "stunning views" The trust said the existing country park attracted about one million visits each year and it expected the additional land to provide "significant health and wellbeing benefits" for locals. Lisa Dodd-Mayne, of Sport England, said access to nature "shouldn't be a luxury". She said: "In a growing city like Plymouth, these new trails will make it easier for more people to build active travel into everyday life, get outdoors and enjoy the health and wellbeing benefits of green spaces close to home." Follow BBC Devon on X , external , Facebook , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk , external . Water voles brought back after more than 25 years National Trust garden's tallest tree to be felled Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.