Charity using art to help rehabilitate inmates

Charity using art to help rehabilitate inmates A self portrait of an inmate in his cell created with acrylics Some inmates created pictures of landscapes One inmate created a 3D model of a peacock butterfly A charity is supporting the rehabilitation of prisoners by offering them the opportunity to create and sell their own artwork. Prisoners at HMP Erlestoke, in Wiltshire, have created their own artwork as part of the Prison Art Project scheme which is supported by homeless charity ALABARÉ. Participants are able to sell their work online with 50% of the proceeds going to the artist. Many of the participants said creativity helped with their mental health and wellbeing while others said it felt "rewarding" to produce artwork. Laura Joy, from the charity, said: "Artwork really gives people a chance to do meaningful activity towards rehabilitation and to support better choices." Participants are provided with an art pack full of supplies like acrylics, pencils, watercolours and pastels with the condition that they create up to four pieces of artwork. If their work is purchased, the artist receives half of the profits with the remainder used to fund the purchase of materials for others on the scheme. Concern as 300-year-old pond dries up in heatwaves Travellers' site shooting victim is named The project has had more than 3,000 participants since it began in the 1960s. There are currently 100 artists participating from 37 prisons and young offender institutions across England and Wales and more than 1,500 pieces of art were waiting to be uploaded and sold online. Joy said the scheme was "a way of giving back" and a way to give the artists a "huge sense of pride". She said: "We know how underfunded and overcrowded prisons are and there are not opportunities in some prisons for the people in prison to study art. "I'm delighted that participants are having their artwork seen outside of their cells and internal art classes. "Many of the pieces have some incredible personal stories behind them and capture a world view that is often hidden." Tell us which stories we should cover in Wiltshire Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook , external , X , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630 . 'Brutally honest' artworks explore depression 'Art therapy workshops have allowed me to be me' How art therapy could cut staff burnout risk Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Who is Natalie Harp