Health service reviews cost almost £188,000

Health service reviews cost almost £188,000 George Oswald says 20 independent investigations or reviews have been commissioned in five years Independent investigations or reviews into health services have cost nearly £188,000 over five years, the government has revealed. Guernsey's Health & Social Care (HSC) President George Oswald said 20 reviews had been either commissioned by or on behalf of the committee in Guernsey between 2021 and 2025. He said the investigations, which included reviews into the pathology, maternity and ophthalmology departments, had cost £187,479 in total. Oswald was responding to a question from Deputy Gavin St Pier , external , who wanted to know how many reviews had been commissioned and what the key findings were. Organisations and people who have carried out the reviews included the Royal College of Surgeons of England, the Isle of Man's head of maternity, as well as consultancy firms. Recommendations which came out of the reports over the five years included additional consultants and locum cover for the island's ear, nose and throat service and improving resilience in the pathology department. Oswald's response added two other reports which were not directly commissioned for or on behalf of HSC but were relevant to its services were also conducted during the five-year period. Follow BBC Guernsey on X , external and Facebook , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to channel.islands@bbc.co.uk , external . Mental health strategy making 'ongoing progress' Review of paediatric services won't be made public Recommendations to improve mental health services States of Guernsey - Health, Social Care and Wellbeing Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.