Doctors vote to take strike action in row over pay

Doctors vote to take strike action in row over pay Some 61% of doctors eligible to vote took part in ballot, which opened in early June Doctors on the Isle of Man have voted in support of taking strike action in a row over "pay erosion". The British Medical Association (BMA) said 104 of its 168 eligible members took part in the ballot, with 95% voting in favour. The union said inflation had seen doctors take a "real terms pay cut of 29%" since 2008. Manx Care said it remained "hopeful" its new pay offer - made on 18 June - would be accepted. A ballot on the proposed improved deal is due to conclude next week. No date has been set for industrial action. The strike ballot result coincides with the departure of Manx Care chief executive Teresa Cope , who has been at the helm since its creation in 2021. Cope's resignation was followed by the announcement that the healthcare provider's chair Wendy Reid would also be stepping down this summer. Prakash Thiagarajan said the vote sent "a clear message that the current situation cannot continue" Doctors on the island called off a planned walkout in January 2025 after a deal was reached covering two financial years from 2023-24. That saw the awarding of an 8% pay uplift for the first year, along with another 6% rise from April 2024 and a further 2% from February last year. The BMA said, despite those rises, doctors' real-terms pay was still significantly below what it was in 2008. Chair of the Isle of Man Medical Society Dr Prakash Thiagarajan said the latest vote was "a clear message that the current situation cannot continue". Pay erosion had left doctors "feeling undervalued and increasingly concerned about the future of the profession on the island", he added. BMA deputy chair of council Dr Emma Runswick said, in voting for strike action, doctors were "standing up for fair pay, recognition of their expertise, and the long-term sustainability of medical staffing on the island". Tell us which stories we should cover on the Isle of Man Read more stories from the Isle of Man on the BBC, watch BBC North West Tonight on BBC iPlayer and follow BBC Isle of Man on Facebook , external and X , external . Doctors to vote on industrial action over pay Doctors strike called off as pay deal considered Doctors to strike on Isle of Man for first time Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Russia unleashes 'massive attack' on Kyiv, killing at least five Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of extern