A&E to remain open as doctors' strike called off

A&E to remain open as doctors' strike called off A last-minute pay offer has led to planned strikes at Cheltenham General Hospital being put on hold The planned closure of an A&E department will not go ahead after a doctor's strike was called off. Cheltenham General Hospital's A&E was due to close on Sunday at 20:00 BST and reopen on Monday as a minor injury and illness unit until Friday. But on Saturday, the British Medical Association (BMA) announced that the four-day resident doctor strike would be suspended after a new pay offer from the government. Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust said it was too late to reinstate cancelled appointments on Monday, but health chiefs were working to reorganise those scheduled from Tuesday to Thursday. 'I was not broken - I had undiagnosed ADHD' In Pictures: Action Man balloon, cheese rolling and a royal wedding Search for teens after reports of racial abuse The NHS trust said in a statement: "While this late change means some disruption to services is unavoidable, we are working quickly to restore services wherever possible." Patients are advised to attend as planned unless contacted directly. Dr Jack Fletcher, chair of the BMA's resident doctor committee, said: "All we have asked for is a fair offer that secures enough jobs to tackle the madness of doctor unemployment and take steps to address the erosion of our pay. "Tens of thousands of frontline doctors will now vote in a referendum on whether this offer is sufficient." "Doctors will now have their say. If they say no to this offer we will have to continue our plans for further escalated action across next month." Health Secretary James Murray said the new offer was a "chance to draw a line under the damaging disputes of recent years". He added: "The country simply cannot afford to increase the pay offer for this year. I am pleased that the BMA have recognised this, which has allowed us to make progress in other areas, such as training places and working conditions." The walkout had been due to run from 07:00 on Monday until 06:59 on Friday. It would have been the 16th in the long-running dispute over pay. Tell us which stories we should cover in Gloucestershire Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook , external , X , external and Instagram , external . Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630 . Strike reduces A&E unit to minor injuries service Longest-running NHS strike over as pay deal reached Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how 'I'd love a normal life, but being a 17-year-old carer means sacrifices' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Who is Natalie Harp, Trump's right-hand woman? Lindsay Clancy's trial puts postpartum psychosis in the spotlight 'Words cannot describe losing our home in Stourbridge wildfire' Families' agonising search for answers as thousands still missing in Gaza News Daily: Our flagship daily newsletter delivered to your inbox first thing, with all the latest headlines Is the child maintenance system failing families? David Dimbleby tells the story of how America became a superpower Tuck into a fresh series of Celebrity MasterChef Anna Williamson puts Joe Marler on the therapist's couch Prince Harry and Meghan moving back to UK later this month Harry and Meghan are experts in surprise - but is their UK return forever? 'Harry's coming home' and 'Day trip tragedy' Giant whales move into Greenland waters as ice disappears Vaccine breakthrough stops cancer returning in trial People smuggler exposed by BBC investigation arrested and charged Downpours to continue for UK with risk of flash flooding I quit my £80,000 job to make ice cream - here's how Russia unleashes 'massive attac